lillSIPilpW; 


M.';<llV>CAitttJItUMlf!>3ru-,lUM3na 


CORNELL 

UNIVERSITY 

LIBRARY 


THE  WASON 

CHINESE 
COLLECTION 


Cornell  University  Library 
PL  979.K49K9  1922 


The  cloud  dream  of  the  nine,  a  Korean  no 


3   1924  023  333   077 


Cornell  University 
Library 


The  original  of  tiiis  book  is  in 
tine  Cornell  University  Library. 

There  are  no  known  copyright  restrictions  in 
the  United  States  on  the  use  of  the  text. 


http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924023333077 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 


a 


The  Fairies  on  the  Bridge 


THE  CLOUD  DREAM 

OF  THE  NINE  J^  ^KOREAN 
NOVEL  :  A  STORY  OF  THE  TIMES 
OF  THE  TANGS  OF  CHINA  ABOUT 
840  A.D.  BY  KIM  MAN-CHOONG 
(1617-1682  A.D.)  PRESIDENT  OF 
THE  CONFUCIAN  COLLEGE  ^  ^ 
TRANSLATED  BY  JAMES  S.  GALE 
30  YEARS  RESIDENT  IN  KOREA 
WITH  AN  INTRODUCTION  BY 
ELSPET  KEITH  ROBERTSON  SCOTT 
AND    SIXTEEN    ILLUSTRATIONS 


PUBLISHED  BY  DANIEL  O'CONNOR 
LONDON  :  90  GREAT  RUSSELL 
STREET,   W.C.I     j^    j^    j^     MCMXXII 


THE  WESTMINSTER  PRESS 

HARROW  ROAD 

LONDON  W 


Contents 

INTRODUCTION 

Page 

I 

The  Book 

ix 

II 

The  Translator 

ix 

III 

The  Author 

xi 

IV 

The  Tale 

xiii 

V 

Woman's  Voice  in  Polygamy 

xxxiii 

VI 

Heaven  on  Earth 

xxxvii 

VII 

The  Present  Translation 

THE  NOVEL 

xxxix 

I 

The  Transmigration  of  Song-jin 

3 

II 

A  Glimpse  of  Chin  See 

21 

III 

The  Meeting  with  Kay  See 

39 

IV 

In  the  Guise  of  a  Priestess 

54 

V 

Among  the  Fairies 

73 

VI 

It  is  Cloudlet 

95 

VII 

The  Imperial  Son-in-law 

122 

VIII 

A  Hopeless  Dilemma 

137 

IX 

Among  Mermaids  and  Mermen 

155 

X 

Humble  Submission 

165 

XI 

The  Capture  of  Cheung  See 

183 

XII 

Yang's  Supreme  Regret 

197 

XIII 

The  Awakening 

216 

XIV 

In  the  Fairy  Lists 

245 

XV 

The  Wine  Punishment 

267 

XVI 

The  Answer :  Back  to  the  Buddha 

290 

APPENDIX  301 


List  of  Illustrations       p^dng 

page 
The  Fairies  on  the  Bridge  Frontispiece 

The  Chun-jin  PaviUon  40 

In  the  Guise  of  a  Priestess  64 

The  Poem  by  the  Way  :  Among  the  Fairies  88 

Cloudlet's  Meeting  with  Wildgoose  98 

The  Stork  Dance  :  The  Palace  Maids  in  Waiting  128 
Chin  See's  Fear  :  Cloudlet  says  Farewell  142 

The  Dragon  King  Defeated  :  Among  the 

Mermaids  158 

Visit  to  the  Monastery  :  Pictures  to  Sell  176 

The  Princess  Visits  Cheung  See  :  Cheung  See's 

Return  Visit  190 

Two  in  One  Palanquin  :  The  Poetry  Contest  196 
The  Cloudy  Dream  Land  :  Cloudlet's  Sorrow  214 
The  Wedding  :  Wildgoose  and  Moonlight  220 

In  the  Fairy  Lists  :    Swallow  and  White-cap 

Enter  262 

The  Wine  Punishment :  Green  Mountain  Castle  274 
Yang  looks  away  from  the  World  :    Back  to 

Religion  296 


Vll 


it 


T! 


Introduction 

I.— THE  BOOK 

HE  reader  must  lay  aside  all  Western  no- 
tions of  morality  if  he  would  thoroughly 
enjoy  this  book.  The  scene  of  the  amazing 
"  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine,"  the  most  moving 
romance  of  polygamy  ever  written,  is  laid  about 
840  A.D.  in  the  period  of  the  great  Chinese  dynasty 
of  the  Tangs.  By  its  simple  directness  this  hitherto 
unknown  Korean  classic  makes  an  ineffaceable 
impression. 

But  the  story  of  the  devotion  of  Master  Yang  to 
eight  women  and  of  their  devotion  to  him  and  to 
each  other  is  more  than  a  naive  tale  of  the  relations 
of  men  and  women  under  a  social  code  so  far  removed 
from  our  own  as  to  be  almost  incredible.  It  is  a 
record  of  emotions,  aspirations  and  ideas  which 
enables  us  to  look  into  the  innermost  chambers  of 
the  Chinese  soul.  "  The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine  " 
is  a  revelation  of  what  the  Oriental  thinks  and  feels 
not  only  about  things  of  the  earth  but  about  the 
hidden  things  of  the  Universe.  It  helps  us  towards 
a  comprehensible  knowledge  of  the  Far  East. 

II.— THE  TRANSLATOR 

But  first  a  word  on  the  medium  through  which  this 
extraordinary  book  reaches  us. 

Travellers,  artists,  students,  archaeologists  and 
history  writers,  journalists  and  literary  folk,  officials 
and  diplomatic  dignitaries  who  wend  their  way  to 

ix  b 


Introduction 

China  by  way  of  Seoul,  carry  in  their  wallets  letters 
of  introduction  to  Dr.  James  Gale.* 

For  more  than  thirty  years  Dr.  Gale  has  been 
clearing  and  hewing  in  a  virgin  forest,  the  literature 
of  Korea.  He  is  the  foremost  literary  interpreter  to 
the  West  of  the  Korean  mind.  This  is  how  he  regards 
that  mind — ^the  words  are  taken  from  an  address  to 
a  group  of  Japanese  officials  who  sought  Gale's 
counsel  on  a  memorable  occasion  : 

"  The  Korean  Uves  apart  in  a  world  of  wonder, 
something  quite  unlike  our  modern  civilisation,  in  a 
beautiful  world  of  the  imnd.  I  have  studied  for  thirty 
years  to  enter  sympathetically  into  this  world  of  the 
Korean  mind  and  I  am  still  an  outsider.  Yet  the  more 
I  penetrate  this  ancient  Korean  civilisation  the  more 
I  respect  it." 

No  man  knows  more  of  Korea  or  more  deeply 
loves  her  people,  and  is  loved  by  them,  than  Dr. 
Gale.  Japanese  officials  have  also  a  sincere  regard  for 
Dr.  Gale.  They  have  been  accustomed  to  carry  to 
him  their  perplexity  over  Korean  problems,  just  as 
the  Korean  has  come  to  Gale  in  his  troubles  with  the 
Japanese.  It  is  because  of  a  combination  of  social 
qualities  with  scholarship  that  Dr.  Gale  has  been 
able  so  convincingly  to  translate  Far  Eastern  romance 
and  character  study. 

*  The  Rev.  James  Scarth  Gale,  son  of  John  Gale,  a  native  of 
Aberdeen,  N.B.,  and  Miami  Bradt  of  Ontario.  Born  1863. 
Published  "Korean  Grammatical  Forms,"  1892  ;"  The  Van- 
guard :  a  Tale  of  Korea,"  1894  ;  "  Korean-English  Dictionary," 
1897  ;  "  Korean  Sketches,"  1898  ;  "  Korean  Folk  Tales,"  1913. 
For  ten  years  was  one  of  the  translators  of  the  Bible  into  Korean. 
Married,  first,  the  widow  of  Dr.  Heron,  Physician  to  the  Emperor 
of  Korea  ;  second,  Ada  Sale  of  Yokohama.  Presbyterian  mis- 
sionary since  leaving  the  Toronto  University. 


Introduction 

All  the  literary  interpretative  work  that  Gale  has 
done  before  the  present  book — from  the  fascinating 
diary  of  a  Korean  general  of  a  thousand  years  ago, 
who  wrote  his  impressions  as  he  travelled  through 
Manchuria  to  pay  his  devoirs  at  the  great  court  of 
China,  to  that  literary  gem  preserved  in  Gale's 
translation  of  the  brief  Petition  of  two  aged  Korean 
Viscounts,  who  pleaded  in  terms  of  archaic  simplicity 
with  the  Japanese  Governor- General  Hasegawa  to 
listen  to  the  plaint  of  their  people  for  freedom — is  so 
sincere,  lucid,  and  impersonal,  that  the  reader  knows 
that  he  is  being  given  reality  and  not  an  adaptation. 

Dr.  Gale  is  the  unhurried  man  who  has  time  for 
every  public  behest.  Much  of  the  hard  literary  work 
of  his  full  day  is  done  in  the  hours  of  morning  calm 
before  the  world  has  breakfasted.  The  chief  native 
helper  of  this  quiet- eyed  missionary  in  the  work  of 
translation  has  been  with  him  for  thirty  years.  The 
unsought,  almost  unconscious  influence  of  a  man 
like  Gale  justifies  the  hopes  of  the  most  old-fashioned 
believers  in  Christian  missions  and  lends  romance  to 
work  that  too  often  seems  to  lead  nowhere.  Here 
is  the  real  ambassador  in  a  foreign  land  :  that  rare 
thing  the  idealist  and  scholar  who  has  an  understand- 
ing of  the  small  things  of  life  ;  the  judicially-minded 
man  who  makes  such  deep  demands  on  principle 
that  he  draws  all  men  to  him. 

III.— THE  AUTHOR 

Writing  somewhere  of  the  Korean  love  of  literature. 
Dr.  Gale  says  :  "  Literature  has  been  everything 
in  Korea.  The  literati  were  the  only  men  privileged 
to   ride   the   dragon   up  into   the  highest   heaven, 

xi 


Introduction 

The  scholar  might  not  only  look  at  the  King,  he 
could  talk  with  him.  Could  you  but  read,  intone  or 
expound  the  classics,  you  might  materially  be  drop- 
ping to  tatters  but  still  the  world  would  wait  on  you 
and  listen  regardfuUy  to  show  you  honour.  Many  an 
unkempt  son  of  the  literati  has  the  writer  looked  on 
with  surprise  to  see  him  receive  the  respectful  and 
profound  salutations  of  the  better  laundered  classes. 
Korea  is  not  commercial,  not  military,  not  industrial, 
but  she  is  a  devotee  of  letters.  She  exalts  books." 

I  hear  some  traveller  say  :  "  What !  Do  you  mean 
to  suggest  that  those  funny  chaps  I  saw  in  the  streets 
of  Seoul  wearing  baggy  white  trousers  and  queer 
little  Welsh  hats,  who  sat  around  in  lazy  groups 
smoking  long  pipes  and  looking  into  nowhere,  have 
a  literature  ?  I  always  understood  that  the  Japanese 
had  an  awful  time  cleaning  up  their  country  and  get- 
ting them  to  bury  their  dead.  I've  always  heard  that 
if  it  weren't  for  Japanese  money  and  hustle  the 
Koreans  would  be  nothing  but  walking  hosts  of 
smallpox  and  plague  germs." 

And  the  traveller  would  be  wrong. 

"  The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine  "  lures  the 
reader  into  mysterious  vales  and  vistas  of  remotest 
Asia  and  opens  to  him  some  of  the  sealed  gateways 
of  the  East. 

The  seventeenth-century  author,  Kim  Man- 
Choong,  mourned  all  his  Ufe  that  he  should  have 
been  born  after  his  father  had  died.  So  remarkable 
was  his  filial  piety  that  his  fame  as  a  son  spread  far 
and  wide. 

In  his  devotion  to  his  mother,  Yoon  See,  he  never 
left  her  side  except  on  Court  duty.  He  would  entertain 

xii 


Introduction 

her  as  did  those  of  ancient  days  who  "  played 
with  birds  before  their  parents,  or  dressed  and  acted 
like  little  children."  In  his  efforts  to  entertain  his 
mother  Kim  Man-Choong  would  read  to  her  inter- 
esting stories,  novels  and  old  histories.  He  would 
read  far  into  the  night  to  give  her  pleasure,  and  his 
reward  was  to  hear  her  laugh  of  joyful  appreciation. 

But  there  came  a  day  when  Kim  Man-Choong  was 
sent  into  exile.  His  mother's  words  were  :  "  All  the 
great  ones  of  the  earth,  sooner  or  later,  have  gone 
thus  to  distant  outlying  sea  coasts  or  to  the  hills. 
Have  a  care  for  your  health  and  do  not  grieve  on  my 
account."  But  those  who  heard  these  brave  words 
wept  on  the  mother's  behalf. 

Kim  Man-Choong  wrote  "  The  Cloud  Dream  of 
the  Nine  "  while  he  was  an  exile,  and  his  aim  in 
writing  it  was  to  cheer  and  comfort  his  mother.  The 
thought  underlying  the  story  is  that  earth's  best 
attainments  are  fleeting  vanity  and  that  without  reli- 
gion nothing  avails.  The  book  became  a  favourite 
among  the  virtuous  women  of  the  day  and  for  long 
afterwards. 

Kim  Man-Choong  matriculated  in  1665  and  was 
made  later  a  famous  Doctor  of  Literature  and  Presi- 
dent of  the  Confucian  College.  He  was  exiled  in 
1689.  On  his  death  the  State  erected  a  Gate  of  Honour 
calling  attention  to  his  filial  piety  and  marking  his 
title,  Moon-hyo  Kong,  Prince  Moon-hyo.  So  says 
"  Korea's  Famous  Men,"  Vol.  HI,  page  205. 

IV.— THE  TALE 
Far  off  in  the  glorious  mountains  of  Eastern  Asia, 
whose  peaks   "  block  the  clouds  in  their  course  and 

xiii 


Introduction 

startle  the  world  with  the  wonder  of  their  formation," 
there  is  an  innermost  group  that  is  "  charged  with 
divine  influences."  Since  the  days  of  the  Chinese 
Deluge  (B.C.  2205-2197)  holy  men  and  women  and 
genii  have  been  wont  to  dwell  in  these  mountain 
fastnesses,  and  no  pen  can  ever  record  all  the  strange 
and  wonderful  things  that  have  happened  there. 

Here  in  the  days  of  the  Tang  dynasty  a  priest  from 
India  who  was  a  "  Master  of  the  Six  Temptations  " 
was  so  moved  by  the  marvellous  beauty  of  the  hills 
that  he  built  a  monastery  on  Lotus  Peak  and  there 
preached  the  doctrines  of  the  Buddha.  Among  his 
600  disciples  the  youngest,  Song-jin,  barely  twenty, 
who  was  without  guile  and  most  beautiful  in  face  and 
form,  had  greater  wisdom  and  goodness  than  all  the 
other  followers,  so  that  the  Master  chose  him  to  be 
his  successor  when  he  should  **  take  his  departure 
to  the  West." 

But  temptation  befel  Song-jin. 

He  was  sent  by  the  Master  with  a  greeting  to  the 
Dragon  King,  who  feasted  him  and  deceived  him 
with  wine.  Although  Song-jin  refused  many  times, 
saying,  "  Wine  is  a  drink  that  upsets  and  maddens 
the  soul  and  is  therefore  strictly  forbidden  by  the 
Buddha,"  he  finally  drank  three  glasses  and  a 
"  dizzy  indistinctness  possessed  him."  On  his  way 
back  to  the  monastery  he  sat  by  the  bank  of  a  stream 
to  bathe  his  hot  face  in  the  limpid  water  and  repri- 
mand himself  for  his  sinfulness.  He  thought  also  of 
the  chiding  he  would  receive  from  the  Master. 

But  a  strange  and  novel  fragrance  was  wafted 
towards  him.  It  was  "  neither  the  perfume  of  orchid 
nor  of  musk,"  but  of  "  something  wholly  new  and 

xiv 


Introduction 

not  experienced  before,"  It  seemed  to  "  dissipate 
the  soul  of  passion  and  uncleanliness."  Song-jin 
decided  to  follow  the  course  of  the  stream  until  he 
should  find  the  wonderful  flowers. 

He  found,  instead  of  flowers,  eight  fairy  maidens 
seated  on  a  stone  bridge. 

These  maidens  were  messengers  sent  by  a  Queen 
of  the  genii  who  had  become  a  Taoist  by  divine  com- 
mand and  had  settled  on  one  of  the  mountain  peaks 
with  a  company  of  angelic  boys  and  fairy  girls.  While 
Song-jin  was  at  the  palace  of  the  Dragon  King,  these 
eight  fairy  girls  were  calling  on  the  Master  of  the 
monastery  with  greetings  and  offerings  from  their 
heavenly  Queen.  They  had  rested  on  the  bridge  to 
admire  the  scenery  and  had  dallied  there  fascinated 
by  their  own  reflections  in  the  stream  below. 

Song-jin  greeted  them  ceremoniously  and  told 
them  that  he  was  a  humble  priest  returning  to  his 
home  in  the  monastery.  "  This  stone  bridge  is  very 
narrow,"  he  said,  "  and  you  goddesses  being  seated 
upon  it  block  the  way.  Will  you  not  kindly  take  your 
lotus  footsteps  hence  and  let  me  pass  ?  "  The  fairies 
bowed  in  return  and  teased  the  young  man.  They 
quoted  the  Book  of  Ceremony  to  the  effect  that "  man 
goes  to  the  left  and  woman  to  the  right,"  but  they 
refused  to  budge  and  recommended  that  Song-jin 
cross  by  some  other  way.  They  laughingly  challenged 
him  :  if  he  were  a  disciple  of  the  Teacher  Yook- 
kwan  he  could  follow  the  example  of  the  great  Talma 
who  "  crossed  the  ocean  on  a  leaf."  At  this  Song-jin 
also  laughed,  and  answered  their  challenge  by  throw- 
ing before  them  a  peach  blossom  that  he  carried  in 
his  hand.  The  blossom  immediately  became  four 

XV 


Introduction 

couplets  of  red  flowers  and  these  again  were  trans- 
formed into  eight  jewels.  The  fairies  each  picked  up 
a  jewel,  then  they  looked  towards  Song-jin,  laughed 
delightedly  and  "  mounted  on  the  winds  and  sailed 
through  the  air." 

There  followed  a  period  of  darkness  and  misery 
for  Song-jin.  He  tried  to  justify  himself  to  the  Master 
for  his  long  tarrying,  but  though  he  tried  to  rein  in 
his  thoughts  when  he  retired  to  his  cell  the  lure  of 
earth  was  strong.  "  If  one  study  diligently  the  Con- 
fucian classics,"  said  the  tempter  to  him,  "  one 
may  become  a  General  or  a  Minister  of  State,  one 
may  dress  in  silk  and  bow  before  the  King  and  dis- 
pense favours  among  the  people.  One  can  look  on 
beautiful  things  with  the  eyes  and  hear  delightful 
sounds  with  the  ears,  whereas  we  Buddhists  have 
only  our  little  dish  of  rice  and  spare  flask  of  water, 
many  dry  books  to  learn  and  our  beads  to  say  over 
till  we  are  old  and  grey.  The  vacant  longings  that  are 
never  satisfied  are  too  deep  to  express.  When  once 
the  spirit  and  soul  dissipate  into  smoke  and  nothing- 
ness, who  will  ever  know  that  a  person  called  Song- 
jin  lived  upon  this  earth  ?  " 

The  young  priest  was  tormented  by  visions  of  the 
eight  fairy  maidens,  his  ears  ringing  with  sweet  voices 
until  he  became  like  one  "  half  insane  or  intoxi- 
cated." He  burnt  incense,  knelt,  called  in  all  his 
thoughts,  counted  his  beads,  and  recalled  to  his  con- 
sciousness the  thousand  Buddhas  who  could  help 
him.  But  in  the  middle  of  the  night  the  Master  called 
him  and,  refusing  all  excuse,  condemned  him  to  Hell. 

The  young  Song-jin  pleaded  with  tears  and  many 
eloquent  words,  saying  :  "  I  came  to  you  when  only 

xvi 


Introduction 

twelve.  Our  love  is  as  between  an  only  son  and  a 
father.  My  hopes  are  all  here.  Where  shall  I  go  ?  " 

To  Song-jin's  appeal  for  mercy  the  Master  said  : 
"  While  your  mind  remains  unpurified,  even  though 
you  are  here  in  the  mountains,  you  cannot  attain  to 
the  Truth.  But  if  you  never  forget  it  and  holdfast, 
you  may  mix  with  the  dust  and  impurities  of  the  way 
and  your  return  is  sure.  If  you  ever  desire  to  come 
back  here  I  will  go  to  bring  you.  You  desire  to  go  ; 
that  is  what  makes  me  send  you  off.  You  ask, '  Where 
shall  I  go  ? '  I  answer,  '  To  the  place  where  you 
desire  to  go.'  " 

Song-jin  descended  into  Hell,  and  the  King  of  that 
region  was  so  surprised  and  perplexed  by  his  coming 
that  he  sent  to  the  Buddhist  God  of  the  Earth  for 
advice  about  punishing  him. 

At  the  same  time  the  eight  fairy  maidens  arrived  in 
Hell,  and  the  King  after  hearing  their  story  com- 
manded nine  of  his  messengers,  "  in  a  low  voice," 
to  "  take  these  nine  and  get  them  back  as  soon  as 
possible  to  the  world  of  the  living." 

So  a  great  wind  arose,  tossed  and  carried  the  nine 
through  space,  and  after  whirling  them  to  the  four 
ends  of  the  earth,  finally  landed  them  on  solid 
ground.  They  were  all  born  into  different  families, 
and  as  human  beings  knew  nothing  of  their  former 
existence  nor  guessed  that  their  present  experience 
was  an  expiation. 

Song-jin  was  born  again  as  the  only  child  of  a 
hermit  and  his  wife.  They  loved  him  greatly,  for  they 
saw  that  he  was  a  heavenly  visitor.  The  father,  who 
was  originally  of  another  world,  when  he  recognised 
his  son  to  be  a  "  Superior  Man,"  said  good-bye  to 

xvii 


Introduction 

his  wife  whom  he  had  faithfully  loved,  content  now 
to  leave  her  in  the  care  of  their  son,  and  he  returned 
to  his  friends  the  genii  on  a  famous  mountain. 

There  follows  the  story  of  Song-jin's  earthly  life 
and  his  eight-fold  love  story.  Each  fairy  maiden 
having  an  affinity  with  Song-jin  was  destined  to 
serve  him  as  wife  or  mistress.  Song-jin  bore  the  name 
of  his  hermit  father,  Yang,  and  the  name  given  him 
at  birth. 

Master  Yang,  as  we  shall  now  know  him,  was  a 
child  of  such  beauty  and  a  youth  of  such  wisdom  that 
the  governor  of  his  county  called  him  the  "  Marvel- 
lous Lad  "  and  offered  to  recommend  him  to  the 
Court.  His  physical  strength,  learning  and  ability  in 
the  Classics  and  composition,  his  marvellous  know- 
ledge of  astronomy  and  geomancy,  his  military 
prowess — he  was  a  wonder  of  skill  in  tossing  the 
spear  and  fencing  with  the  short  sword — ^were  only 
equalled  by  his  filial  piety.  He  "  deftly  solved  the 
mysteries  of  hfe  as  one  would  split  the  bamboo." 

While  still  in  his  teens  Yang  expressed  his  desire 
to  go  forth  to  compete  at  the  Government  Examina- 
tion so  that  he  should  "  for  ever  estabUsh  the  repu- 
tation and  honour "  of  his  family.  His  faithful 
mother  stifled  her  fears  for  the  long  journey,  for  she 
saw  that  his  "  spirit  was  awake  and  anxious,"  By 
selUng  her  few  treasures  she  was  able  to  supply  means 
for  his  travels. 

Master  Yang  set  out  on  his  adventure  accompanied 
by  a  Httle  serving-lad  and  a  limping  donkey.  As  he 
had  a  long  and  leisured  way  before  him  he  was  able 
to  Unger  over  the  beauties  of  the  scenery  through 
which  he  passed. 

xviii 


Introduction 

The  story  unfolds  with  fascinating  perplexity  the 
love  drama  of  nine.  The  maidens  are  all  peerless 
in  beauty,  virtue,  talent,  goodness  and  charm.  So 
generous  is  the  flame  of  Master  Yang's  affection  that 
he  enshrines  each  love  with  apparently  equal  and 
unabated  warmth.  Of  the  eight  maidens,  seven  openly 
declared  their  choice  of  Yang  as  their  master  and  one 
was  sought  deliberately  by  him.  No  shade  of  jealousy 
mars  the  perfect  affinity  of  the  nine. 

Yang  easily  won  the  highest  place  in  the  Govern- 
ment Competitive  Examination  and  became  a  master 
of  literary  rank.  This  raised  him  from  obscurity  to 
fame  and  from  poverty  to  wealth.  "  His  name  shook 
the  city.  All  the  nobility  and  peers  who  had  mar- 
riageable daughters  strove  together  in  their  appli- 
cations through  go-betweens." 

But  Yang  had  already  decided  to  offer  marriage  to 
the  only  daughter  of  a  certain  Justice  Cheung.  Dis- 
guised as  a  Taoist  priestess,  he  had  gained  entry  into 
the  inner  court  of  the  Cheung  household  some  days 
before  the  examination.  In  the  presence  of  the  ladies 
of  the  family  he  had  played  on  his  harp  and  had  sung 
with  a  voice  of  unearthly  sweetness  certain  songs  that 
had  been  taught  to  him  by  genii. 

The  young  lady  sat  attentively  listening  while  she 
identified  in  turn  each  song,  "  Feathery  Robes," 
"  The  Garden  of  Green  Gems  and  Trees,"  "  The 
Distant  Barbarian  "  and  others.  She  defined  one  as 
"  the  supreme  expression  of  all  music,"  the  thought 
of  which  ran,  she  said,  "  He  travelled  through  all  the 
nine  provinces  and  found  no  place  in  which  to  rest 
his  heart."  The  young  lady  so  amazed  Yang  by  her 
accuracy  and  skill  in  divining  and  revealing  the  nature 

xix 


Introduction 

and  history  of  the  rare  music  that  finally,  "  kneeling, 
he  cast  more  incense  on  the  fire  and  played  the  famous 
'  Nam-hoon  Palace  of  King  Soon.'  "  On  which  she 
quoted,  "  The  south  wind  is  warm  and  sweet  and 
bears  away  on  its  wings  the  sorrows  of  the  world." 
"  This  is  lovely,"  the  young  lady  said,  "  and  fills 
one's  heart  to  overflowing.  Even  though  you  know 
others  I  have  no  desire  to  hear  them." 

She  would  have  left  the  apartment,  but  the  dis- 
guised Yang  humbly  begged  permission  to  play  and 
sing  one  other.  He  straightened  the  bridge  of  his  harp 
and  "  the  music  seemed  far  distant  at  first,  awaken- 
ing a  sense  of  delight  and  calling  the  soul  to  a  fast 
and  lively  way.  The  flowers  of  the  court  opened  out 
at  the  sound  of  it ;  the  swallows  in  pairs  swung 
through  their  delightful  dancings  ;  the  orioles  sang 
in  chorus  to  each  other.  The  young  mistress  dropped 
her  head,  closed  her  eyes  and  sat  silent  for  a  moment 
till  the  part  was  reached  which  tells  how  the  phoenix 
came  back  to  his  native  land  gliding  across  the  wide 
expanse  of  sea  looking  for  his  mate.  She  looked  at 
the  pretended  priestess,  the  red  blushes  mounted  to 
her  cheeks  and  drove  even  the  pale  colour  from  her 
brow.  She  quietly  arose  and  went  into  her  own  apart- 
ment." 

Neither  her  mother  nor  any  of  the  attendants 
understood  why  the  young  mistress  had  retired,  nor 
could  they  persuade  her  to  return.  But  in  the  privacy 
of  her  chamber.  Jewel,  for  that  was  the  name  of  the 
young  lady,  spoke  to  her  adopted  sister.  Cloudlet. 

"  Cloudlet,  my  dear,  you  know  I  have  been  careful 
of  my  behaviour  as  the  Book  of  Rites  requires,  guard- 
ing my  thoughts  as  pearls  and  jewels,  and  that  my 

XX 


Introduction 

feet  have  never  ventured  outside  the  middle  gates. 
.  .  .  I,  an  unmarried  girl  of  the  inner  quarters,  have 
sat  for  two  full  hours  face  to  face  with  a  strange  man 
unblushingly  talking  to  him.  When  I  heard  the  song 
of  the  phoenix  seeking  her  mate  I  looked  closely  into 
the  priestess's  face.  Assuredly  it  was  not  a  girl's  face 
at  all.  Did  anyone  ever  hear  such  a  thing  in  the  world 
before  ?  I  cannot  tell  this  even  to  my  mother." 

Cloudlet  pleaded  for  the  young  man  whose  beauty 
and  powers  were  so  unusual.  But  Jewel  was  not  to 
be  moved,  and  when  later  Master  Yang  formally 
called  on  Justice  Cheung  and  proposed  marriage  and 
the  Justice  was  honoured  by  his  proposal  and  de- 
lighted to  accept  it.  Jewel's  scruples  were  hard  to 
overcome.  She  felt  that  the  young  man  must  be  pun- 
ished, and  to  "  save  her  face  "  determined  to  carry 
out  a  scheme  of  revenge  on  her  affianced.  Her  plan 
needed  the  help  of  her  beloved  adopted  sister  Cloud- 
let, who,  as  we  have  seen,  had  conceived  a  partiality 
for  the  bold  lover  Yang.  According  to  custom  Yang 
was  invited  to  stay  at  a  guest  house  in  the  grounds  of 
the  Cheung  residence,  and  was  treated  as  a  loved  son 
by  the  Justice  and  his  lady.  The  lady  Cheung  her- 
self supervised  his  food  and  clothing.  Jewel  proposed 
to  her  mother  that  Cloudlet,  who  was  skilful  as  well 
as  beautiful,  should  be  appointed  to  oversee  Master 
Yang's  comfort  so  as  to  save  her  mother.  The  mother 
protested.  "  Your  father  desires,"  said  the  lady 
Cheung,  "  that  a  special  husband  should  be  chosen 
for  Cloudlet  that  she  may  have  a  home  of  her  own. 
When  you  are  married  Cloudlet  could  not  go  with 
you  as  a  servant ;  her  station  and  attainments  are 
superior  to  that.  The  only  way  open  to  you  in  accord 

xxi 


Introduction 

with  ancient  rites  would  be  to  have  her  attend  as  the 
Master's  secondary  wife." 

Jewel's  answer  to  her  mother  was :  "  Master  Yang  is 
noweighteen.Heis  a  scholar  of  daring  spirit  who  even 
ventured  into  the  inner  quarters  of  a  Minister's  home 
and  made  sport  with  his  unmarried  daughter.  How 
can  you  expect  such  a  man  to  be  satisfied  with  only 
one  wife  ?  Later  when  he  becomes  a  Minister  of  State 
and  gets  ten  thousand  rice  bags  as  salary,  how  many 
Cloudlets  will  he  not  have  to  bear  him  company?" 

But  Jewel's  mother  was  not  satisfied,  and  when 
the  Justice  was  appealed  to,  she  said  :  "  To  appoint 
a  secondary  wife  before  the  first  marriage  is  something 
I  am  quite  opposed  to."  The  mother  was  overborne, 
however,  and  the  Justice  entered  with  amusement 
into  his  beloved  daughter's  plan  of  revenge. 

Jewel  then  put  the  matter  to  her  beloved  Cloudlet 
thus  :  "  Cloudlet,  I  have  been  with  you  ever  since 
the  hair  grew  on  our  brows  together.  We  have  loved 
each  other  since  the  days  we  fought  with  flower  buds. 
Now  that  I  have  my  wedding  gifts  sent  me,  I  wonder 
who  you  have  thought  of  for  a  husband."  Cloudlet 
answered :  "  I  have  specially  loved  you,  dear  mistress. 
If  I  could  but  hold  your  dressing  mirror  for  ever  I 
should  be  satisfied."  Jewel  continued  :  "  You  know 
that  Master  Yang  made  a  ninny  of  me  when  he  played 
the  harp  in  the  inner  compound.  Only  by  you,  Cloud- 
let, can  I  ever  hope  to  wipe  out  the  disgrace.  We 
have  a  summer  pavilion  in  a  secluded  part  of  South 
Mountain.  We  could  prepare  a  marriage  chamber 
there.  The  views  are  beautiful,  like  a  world  of  the 
fairies.  I  am  only  desirous  that  you.  Cloudlet,  will 
not  mind  taking  your  part  in  it." 

xxii 


Introduction 

Cloudlet  laughed  and  said  :  "  Though  I  die  I  will 
go  through  with  it  and  do  just  as  you  say." 

Master  Yang  was  lured  to  South  Mountain  with 
the  help  of  a  male  cousin  and  left  in  a  lonely  but 
beaiitiful  place.  Here  Cloudlet  appeared  in  the  guise 
of  a  fairy  and  enticed  him  into  the  pavilion.  So  skilful 
was  Cloudlet's  wooing  that  Yang  "  loved  her  from 
the  depths  of  his  heart  and  his  love  was  reciprocated." 
A  most  intricate  practical  joke  was  played  on  Yang 
for  many  weeks.  Cloudlet  pretended  to  vanish  and 
reappear  as  a  disembodied  spirit,  and  the  love-making 
was  then  continued  in  the  house  given  to  Yang  in  the 
Cheung  compound.  Then  Cloudlet  disappeared  again, 
and  Yang's  "  sleep  failed  him  and  his  desire  for  food 
fell  away." 

The  whole  hovisehold  was  in  the  secret,  and  the 
Justice,  who  was  watching  the  affair  with  amusement, 
obtained  Yang's  confidence  and  hinted  that  it  was 
a  mistake  to  let  a  disembodied  spirit  make  love  to 
him.  "  Even  though  you  say  she  is  a  disembodied 
spirit,"  said  the  distressed  young  man,  "this  girl  is 
firm  and  substantial  in  form  and  by  no  means  a 
piece  of  nothingness."  When  the  Justice  felt  that  the 
joke  had  gone  far  enough  he  revealed  the  deception 
to  Yang.  The  male  cousin  "  rolled  in  fits  of  merri- 
ment "  and  "  the  servants  were  convulsed  with 
laughter."  The  old  people  quietly  enjoyed  what  the 
Justice  said  was  "  a  laughable  enough  joke  in  its 
way."  Cloudlet  gained  the  desirable  position  of 
secondary  wife  before  the  consummation  of  the  first 
marriage  and  proved  her  loyalty  and  love  for  Mistress 
Jewel,  while  Yang  had  the  joy  of  Cloudlet's  constant 
care  and  attention. 

xxiii 


Introduction 

But  before  the  consummation  of  Yang's  marriage 
with  Jewel  many  stirring  events  were  to  happen.  He 
was  sent  to  far  regions  to  quell  rebellions  against  the 
State  and,  after  many  victories,  rose  to  the  highest 
military  command  in  the  land.  Meanwhile,  the  other 
six  love  affairs  were  unfolded.  Two  of  these  had  been 
started  on  his  first  journey  from  his  native  village 
before  passing  the  Government  Examination.  The 
first  was  the  meeting  with  the  maiden,  Chin  See. 

"  At  a  certain  place  he  saw  a  beautiful  grove  of 
willow  trees.  A  blue  line  of  smoke,  like  silken  rolls 
unwinding,  rose  sk5fward.  In  a  retired  part  of  the 
enclosure  he  saw  a  picturesque  pavilion  with  a  per- 
fectly kept  approach.  He  slowed  up  his  beast  and 
went  near  to  enjoy  the  prospect.  He  sighed  and  said  : 
In  our  world  of  Chok  there  are  many  pretty  groves, 
but  none  that  I  ever  saw  so  lovely  as  this.  He  rapidly 
composed  a  poem  which  ran  : 

Willows  hung  with  woven  green 
Veiling  all  the  view  between  ; 
Planted  by  some  fairy  free. 
Sheltering  her  and  calling  me. 
Willows,  greenest  of  the  green, 
Brushing  by  her  silken  screen, 
Speak  by  every  waving  wand, 
Of  an  unseen  fairy  hand. 

"  He  sang  it  out  with  a  rich  clear  voice.  It  was  heard 
in  the  top  storey  of  the  pavilion,  where  a  beautiful 
maiden  was  having  a  siesta.  She  opened  the  embroid- 
ered shade  and  looked  out  through  the  painted  railing. 
Her  hair,  like  a  tumbled  cloud,  rested  soft  and  warm 

xxiv 


Introduction 

upon  her  temples.  The  long  jade  pin  that  held  the 
plaits  together  had  been  pushed  aside  till  it  showed 
slantwise  through  her  tresses.  Her  sleepy  eyelids 
were  as  if  she  had  just  emerged  from  dreamland. 
Rouge  and  cosmetics  had  vanished  under  the  uncere- 
monious hand  of  sleep  and  her  natural  beauty  was 
unveiled,  a  beauty  such  as  no  painter  has  ever  por- 
trayed. The  two  looked  at  each  other  with  a  fixed  and 
startled  expression  but  said  not  a  word.  The  maiden 
suddenly  recollected  herself,  closed  the  blind  and 
disappeared  from  view.  A  suggestion  of  sweet  fra- 
grance was  borne  to  Yang  on  the  breeze." 

The  maiden,  Chin  See,  said  to  her  old  nurse :  "  A 
woman's  lot  in  life  is  to  follow  her  husband.  Her 
glory  or  her  shame,  her  experiences  for  the  span  of 
life  are  wrapped  up  in  her  lord  and  master.  I  am  an 
unmarried  girl  and  disHke  dreadfully  to  become  my 
own  go-between  and  propose  marriage,  but  it  is  said 
that  in  ancient  times  courtiers  chose  their  own  king, 
so  I  shall  make  inquiry  concerning  this  gentleman.  I 
cannot  wait  for  my  father's  return,  for  who  knows 
whither  he  has  gone  or  where  I  shall  look  for  him  in 
the  four  quarters  of  the  earth?  "  She  then  unclasped 
a  roll  of  satin  paper  and  wrote  a  verse  or  two  which 
she  gave  to  her  nurse,  telling  her  to  find  "  a  gentleman 
handsome  as  the  gods,  with  eyebrows  like  the  loftiest 
touches  of  a  picture ,  and  his  form  among  common  men 
like  the  phoenix  among  feathered  fowls,"  The  prac- 
tical old  nurse  replied,  "  What  shall  I  do  if  the 
gentleman  is  already  married  or  engaged  ?  "  The 
maiden  thought  for  a  moment  and  then  said,  "  If 
that  unfortunately  be  so,  I  shall  not  object  to  become 
his  secondary  wife."  Her  message  was  : 

XXV  f 


Introduction 

"  Willows  waving  by  the  way, 
Bade  my  lord  his  course  to  stay, 
He,  alas,  has  failed  to  ken. 
Draws  his  whip  and  rides  again." 

Yang's  response  was  prompt  and  unmistakably  re- 
assuring : 

"  Willow  catkins  soft  and  dear, 

Bid  thy  soul  to  have  no  fear. 

Ever  may  they  bind  us  true, 

You  to  me,  and  me  to  you." 

But  Yang's  love  affair  with  Chin  See  of  the  willow 
grove  came  nearer  tragedy  than  any  of  the  eight  ex- 
periences. Many  vicissitudes  prevented  their  speedy 
union.  Meanwhile  the  love  dramas  in  which  two 
peerless  dancing  girls.  Moonlight  and  Wildgoose, 
played  their  part  saved  Master  Yang  from  grieving 
too  much  over  the  temporary  loss  of  Chin  See. 

Moonlight  was  the  next  love.  She  it  was  who 
foretold  Yang's  future  greatness  and  his  certain 
victory  at  the  Competitive  Examination.  Moonlight 
chose  Yang  from  among  a  group  of  youths  who  were 
competing  for  her  favour.  When  Yang,  at  Moonlight's 
invitation,  was  entertained  by  her  privately,  she  made 
her  feelings  known  to  him  with  entire  frankness.  "  I 
am  yours  from  to-day,"  she  said,  "  and  shall  tell 
you  my  whole  heart."  She  told  the  story  of  the  death 
of  her  father  and  the  sale  of  herself  by  her  stepmother 
for  one  hundred  yang.  "  I  stifled  my  resentful  soul 
and  did  my  best  to  be  faithful,"  said  Moonlight, 
"praying  to  God,  who  has  had  pity  on  me.  To-day  I 
have  met  my  lord  and  look  again  on  the  light  of  sun 

xxvi 


Introduction 

and  moon.  I  have  had  opportunity  to  study  thousands 
of  passers  by,  yet  never  has  one  passed  who  is  equal  to 
my  master.  Unworthy  as  I  am  I  would  gladly  become 
your  serving-maid."  Yang  was  as  yet  without  ex- 
perience and  Moonlight  became  his  wise  counsellor, 
giving  him  hope  for  the  future  and  confidence  in  his 
powers.  As  he  was  too  poor  to  marry  her,  they  agreed 
that  he  would  always  come  to  visit  her  when  he  passed 
that  way. 

Moonlight's  prophecy  was  speedily  fulfilled,  and 
when  Yang  next  visited  her  he  had  become  a  famous 
general  and  was  on  the  road  with  "  all  the  insignia 
of  power — ^flags,  drums  and  battle  axes."  Their  meet- 
ing was  full  of  joy.  "  Yang,  with  pent-up  heart  long- 
ings and  desire  to  see  her  face  to  face,  caught  her 
lovely  expression,  which  took  fresh  grip  of  him.  .  ,  . 
Moonlight  saw  him  dismount  and  bowed  low.  She 
accompanied  him  into  the  guest  room,  where  in  her 
joy  of  soul  she  took  hold  of  the  border  of  his  robes. 
Her  tears  flowed  faster  than  her  words.  She  con- 
gratulated Yang  on  his  engagement  to  the  daughter 
of  Justice  Cheung,  and  told  him  how  she  had  had  at 
one  time  to  cut  off  her  hair  to  escape  dishonour  so 
that  she  might  remain  true  to  him.  "  They  renewed 
their  former  happy  acquaintance  and  he  tarried  for 
several  days." 

Then  follows  an  account  of  Moonlight's  ruse  to 
let  Wildgoose  become  acquainted  with  Master  Yang 
without  his  knowledge  :  "  That  night  he  talked  over 
the  past  with  Moonlight  and  said  how  they  had  indeed 
been  destined  for  each  other.  They  drank  and  were 
happy  till  the  hours  grew  late.  Then  they  put  out 
the  lights  and  slept.  When  the  east  began  to  lighten 

xxvii 


Introduction 

he  awoke  and  saw  Moonlight  dressing  her  hair  before 
the  mirror.  He  looked  at  her  with  tenderest  interest 
and  then  gave  a  start  and  looked  again.  The  delicate 
eyebrows,  the  bright  eyes,  the  wavy  hair  like  a  cloud 
over  the  temples,  the  rosy-tinted  cheeks,  the  lithe 
graceful  form,  the  white  complexion — all  were  Moon- 
light's, and  yet  it  was  not  she." 

Wildgoose  made  an  eloquent  plea  for  her  presence. 
"  How  could  I  ever  have  ventured  to  do  such  a  thing," 
she  said,  "  were  it  not  that  I  have  had  born  in  me  one 
great  indomitable  longing  that  has  possessed  me  all 
my  life — ^to  attach  myself  to  some  renowned  hero  or 
superior  lord.  When  the  King  of  Yon  learned  my 
name  and  bought  me  for  a  heaped-up  bag  of  jewels, 
he  fed  me  on  the  daintiest  fare  and  dressed  me  in 
rarest  silk.  Yet  I  had  no  delight  in  it  but  was  in  dis- 
tress. When  the  King  of  Yon  invited  you  to  a  feast 
I  spied  on  you  through  the  screen  chinks  and  you 
were  the  one  man  that  my  heart  bounded  forth  to 
follow.  The  palace  has  nine  gateways  of  approach, 
but  when  you  had  been  gone  ten  days  I  secretly 
took  one  of  the  King's  fast  horses  and  sped  forth  on 
my  way.  What  I  did  last  night  was  at  the  request  of 
Moonlight.  If  you  will  permit  me  to  find  shelter 
under  your  wide-spreading  tree,  where  I  may  build 
my  little  nest.  Moonlight  and  I  will  live  together,  and 
after  the  Master  is  married  to  some  noble  lady,  she 
and  I  will  come  and  speak  our  good  wishes  and  con- 
gratulations." 

Yang  replied  with  generous  words,  and  Moonlight 
also  appeared  and  said  :  "  Now  that  Wildgoose  has 
waited  on  my  lord  as  well  as  I,  I  thank  thee  on  her 
behalf."  And  they  bowed  repeatedly. 

xxviii 


Introduction 

The  most  startling  of  Yang's  love  stories  is  his 
meeting  with  Swallow.  It  happened  during  a  military 
campaign.  The  General  was  seated  in  his  tent  with 
a  lighted  candle  before  him  reading  despatches  during 
the  third  watch  of  the  night.  Suddenly  a  cold  wind 
extinguished  the  light  of  the  candle,  an  eerie  chill 
filled  the  tent,  and  a  maiden  stepped  in  upon  him 
from  the  upper  air  holding  a  glittering  double-edged 
sword  in  her  hand.  The  General,  "  guessing  her  to 
be  an  assassin,"  did  not  quail  but  stood  his  ground 
sternly  and  asked  who  she  was.  "  I  am  under  the 
command  of  the  King  of  Tibet,"  she  said,  "  to  have 
thy  head."  The  General  laughed.  "  The  Superior 
Man,"  he  replied,  "  never  fears  to  die.  Take  my 
head,  if  yoi*  please,  and  go."  At  this  the  maiden 
disclosed  her  real  intent.  She  had  entered  the  camp 
at  the  bidding  of  the  King -of  Tibet  for  the  ostensible 
purpose  of  carrying  back  to  that  monarch  the  head 
of  the  great  General,  but  her  real  object  was  to  reveal 
her  love  for  Yang  and  to  save  his  life  and  help  him  to 
victory.  "  Her  face  was  bright  like  rose  petals  with 
dew  on  them.  She  wore  phoenix-tail  shoes,  and  her 
tones  were  like  the  oriole."  The  Teacher  who  had 
helped  her  to  become  a  "  master  of  the  sword  drill " 
and  had  taught  her  how  to  "  ride  the  winds,  follow 
the  Ughtnings,  and  in  an  instant  travel  3,000  li"  had 
also  revealed  to  Swallow  that  Yang  was  her  destined 
master  and  her  true  affinity. 

Yang  was  naturally  as  delighted  as  he  had  been 
surprised,  so  "  they  plighted  their  troth,  the  glitter 
of  swords  and  spears  serving  for  candle  light  "  and 
the  "  sound  of  cymbals  for  the  festal  harp."  After 
many  days  of  pleasure  Swallow  said  to  Yang,  "  A 

xxix 


Introduction 

military  camp  is  no  place  for  women  ;  I  fear  that  I 
shall  hinder  the  movements  of  the  troops, so  I  must 
go."  In  vain  Yang  tried  to  persuade  her  that  she  was 
not  as  other  women.  The  Swallow  gave  him  a  parting 
talisman  and  some  sound  advice  and  then  "  sprang 
into  the  air  and  was  gone." 

As  astounding  also  was  General  Yang's  love  affair 
with  White-cap,  the  daughter  of  the  Dragon  King. 
This  lady  helped  Yang  in  his  military  career  by  means 
of  magic.  Her  love-making  took  place  in  a  grotto  under 
a  mountain  lake,  where  she  was  in  hiding  in  the  form 
of  a  mermaid.  "  I  am  Pak  Neung-pa,"  said  White- 
cap,  giving  her  full  name.  "  When  I  was  born  my 
father  was  having  an  audience  with  God  Almighty." 

She  then  explained  how  she  had  been  dowered  from 
birth  with  superhuman  abilities  and  had  incurred  the 
hatred  of  a  neighbouring  King  because  she  refused 
to  listen  to  the  wooing  of  his  undesirable  son.  She 
had  sought  Yang  because  her  affinity  with  him  had 
been  divinely  disclosed.  White-cap  went  on  :  "I 
have  already  made  promise  to  you  of  this  humble 
body,  but  there  are  three  reasons  why  I  ought  not  to 
be  mated  to  your  Excellency.  First,  I  have  not  told 
my  parents  ;  second,  I  can  accompany  you  only  after 
changing  this  mermaid  form  of  mine.  I  still  have 
scales  and  fishy  odours  with  fins  that  would  defile 
my  lord's  presence.  Third,  there  are  spies  of  my 
imwelcome  royal  suitor  all  around  us.  Our  meeting 
will  arouse  their  anger  and  cause  disaster."  The 
General  waived  all  the  objections.  "  Your  ladyship 
was  a  fairy  in  a  former  life,"  he  said,  "  and  you 
therefore  have  a  spiritual  nature.  Between  men  and 
disembodied  spirits  intercourse  may  be  carried  on 

XXX 


Introduction 

without  wrong,  then  why  should  I  have  aversion  to 
scales  and  fins  ?  Why  should  we  miss  this  oppor- 
tunity to  seal  our  happy  contract  ?  "  So  they  "  swore 
the  oath  of  marriage  and  found  great  delight  in  each 
other."  After  this  encounter  Yang's  military  vic- 
tories were  more  glorious  than  ever  and  he  returned 
home  the  greatest  man  of  the  age. 

On  Yang's  return  to  the  capital  the  highest  honour 
had  been  prepared  for  him  that  can  faU  to  the  lot  of 
an  Imperial  subject.  A  marriage  had  been  arranged 
between  him  and  the  lovely  Princess  of  the  Imperial 
family,  Princess  Orchid,  and  he  became  a  Prince  in 
rank.  How  this  marriage  was  arranged,  and  Yang's 
marriage  with  Justice  Cheung's  daughter,  Jewel, 
who  was  raised  to  Imperial  rank  by  adoption,  was 
consummated,  and  how  the  reunion  took  place  with 
Cloudlet  and  Chin  See,  the  reader  is  told  with  many 
thrilling  and  humorous  details. 

Yang's  aged  mother  was  brought  with  great  cere- 
mony to  the  capital.  Honours  and  gifts  were  showered 
upon  her.  The  two  Princesses  bowed  before  her  as 
dutiful  daughters-in-law,  and  the  six  secondary  wives 
also  delighted  in  giving  her  honour.  Yang's  princely 
household  was  so  great  that  palaces,  halls,  galleries 
and  pagodas  were  requisitioned.  His  life  with  his 
eight  wives,  their  children  and  his  aged  mother,  was 
a  revelation  of  earthly  bliss  and  wondrous  grandeur. 
The  Emperor's  reign  was  also  a  notable  time  of 
peace  and  prosperity.  Even  in  old  age  Yang  and  his 
ladies  had  beauty  and  the  power  of  enjoyment. 
:=  But  a  day  came  when  the  Master  heard  "  faint 
voices  calling  from  another  world."  "  Slowly  his 
spirit  withdraws  from  earthly  delights." 

xxxi 


Introduction 

One  day,  while  sitting  in  a  high  tower  from  which 
there  was  a  view  of  Chin  River  stretching  in  silvery 
reaches  for  a  hundred  miles,  he  drew  forth  his  green 
stone  flute  and  played  for  his  ladies  a  "  plaintive  air 
as  though  heaped-up  sorrows  and  tears  had  broken 
forth  upon  them."  The  two  Princesses  asked  why 
he  should  suggest  such  sorrow  in  the  midst  of  their 
exceeding  happiness  with  "  golden  flowers  dropping 
petals  "  at  his  feet,  and  "  our  loving  hearts  around 
you  ?  "  The  Master  pointed  to  distant  ruins  of 
palaces  that  had  held  famous  men  and  their  women 
folk.  He  spoke  of  his  boyhood  as  a  poor  scholar  and 
the  wonderful  triumphs  of  his  career  and  their  nine 
rare  affinities.  "  Children  who  gather  wood  or  feed 
their  cattle  on  the  hillside,"  he  said,  "  will  sing  their 
songs  and  tell  our  mournful  story,  saying,  '  This  is 
where  Master  Yang  made  merry  with  his  wives  and 
family.  All  his  honours  and  delights,  all  the  pretty 
faces  of  his  ladies  are  gone  for  ever.'  "  Hearing  the 
Master's  words  the  ladies  were  moved  and  knew  that 
he  "  was  about  to  meet  the  Enlightened  One." 

Then  there  appeared  an  old  man  leaning  upon  a 
staff.  His  "  eyebrows  were  an  ell  long  and  his  eyes 
were  like  the  blue  waves  of  the  sea."  He  was  the 
aged  priest,  of  Lotus  Peak  who  had  come  to  summon 
Yang.  He  conversed  with  Yang,  who  did  not  at  first 
recognise  him — and  in  a  little  while  Yang  woke  to 
find  himself  in  a  small  cell  in  a  monastery  on  a  moun- 
tain side.  He  looked  at  himself  and  at  his  dress.  He 
was  again  Song-jin  the  acolyte.  His  earthly  power 
and  his  eight  wives  had  vanished  as  a  dream  that  is 
gone.  The  Teacher  came  to  him  and  said  :  **  You 
have  soared  on  the  wings  of  worldly  deUght  and  have 

xxxii 


Introduction 

seen  and  known  for  yourself.  You  say  that  you  have 
dreamed  a  dream  of  mortal  life  upon  the  wheel  and 
now  you  think  the  world  and  the  dream  itself  to  be 
different.  But  this  is  not  so.  If  you  think  it  so,  this 
shows  that  you  are  not  awakened  from  your  sleep." 
Song-jin  replied : "  I  am  a  darkened  soul  and  so  cannot 
distinguish  which  is  the  dream  and  which  is  the  actual 
reality.  Please  open  to  me  the  truth." 

Before  the  Teacher  had  time  to  explain,  the  eight 
fairies  of  the  Queen  of  the  genii  appeared  at  the  monas- 
tery gate.  They  said  to  the  Teacher  :  "  Our  earthly 
desires  have  gone  forth  after  sin  and  evil  in  the  dream 
of  mortal  life,  and  there  is  none  to  save  us  but  the 
Great  Teacher  who  in  love  and  mercy  himself  came 
to  call  us." 

The  Great  Teacher  appointed  the  eight  fairies 
their  places  in  the  Hall  of  the  Buddha.  Then  he  took 
"  his  cassock,  his  alms-dish,  water-bottle  and  his 
ornamented  staff,  his  Diamond  Sutra,  gave  them  to 
Song-jin,  bade  them  all  farewell  and  took  his  depar- 
ture to  the  West."  Song-jin  became  chief  of  the 
disciples  on  that  height  and  taught  the  Doctrine,  and 
the  eight  fairies,  as  priestesses,  served  him  as  their 
master  and  drank  deeply  of  the  Doctrine. 

And  at  last  they  all  reached  the  blissful  heights 
of  Paradise. 

v.— WOMAN'S  VOICE  IN  POLYGAMY 

Polygamy  is  the  chief  bulwark  of  the  Chinese  and 
Korean  family  system,  and  when  its  basic  claim  is 
accepted  by  a  community  its  practicableness,  if  not 
its  justice,  is  undoubted.  The  men  of  the  Tang  era 
had  everything  to  gain  by  such  a  system.  The  women 

xxxiii 


Introduction 

meekly  accepted  their  place  because  they  believed 
that  they  were  expiating  the  faults  of  a  former  exist- 
ence by  enduring  the  shame  of  being  women.  But 
in  this  tale,  which  honours  the  mating  of  one  man 
and  eight  women,  we  find  some  of  the  women  giving 
voice  to  an  inward  discontent. 

The  Princess  Orchid,  Jewel  and  Cloudlet,  we  read, 
sat  "  like  the  three  feet  of  the  incense  burner,"  so 
perfectly  were  they  matched  in  beauty,  grace  and 
learning.  "  They  laughed  sweetly  and  talked  in  soft 
and  tender  accents.  Perfect  agreement  possessed  them 
in  thought  and  mind  and  soul,  and  they  loved  each 
other  with  an  infinite  delight.  They  talked  of  all  the 
great  masters  of  the  past  and  of  the  renowned  ladies 
of  ages  gone  by  till  the  shadows  of  the  night  began  to 
cast  their  lines  athwart  the  silken  window." 

There  is  nothing  more  convincing  in  the  whole 
story  than  the  impression  that  the  writer  unconsciously 
gives  of  the  strenuous  intellectual  and  artistic  pas- 
times of  these  women  of  the  Tang  era.  Their  phy- 
sical charms  are  dwelt  on  poetically  and  fancifully  but 
never  sensuously ;  their  accomplishments  are  so 
varied  that  they  not  only  embroider  and  paint,  study 
music,  dancing  and  sword  drill,  and  write  poems  so 
that  their  "  pens  flew  like  swift  wind  or  a  sudden 
squall  of  rain,"  but  in  classical  allusion  and  meta- 
phor they  hold  their  own  in  conversation  with  literary 
men. 

The  Princess  said  to  Jewel :  "  A  boy  is  free  to  go 
to  all  points  of  the  land  and  sea,  he  can  pick  and 
choose  good  friends,  can  learn  from  another  and  can 
correct  his  faults,  while  a  girl  meets  no  one  but  the 
servants  of  her  own  household.  How  can  she  expect 

xxxiv 


Introduction 

to  grow  in  goodness  or  to  find  in  any  such  place 
answers  to  the  questions  of  the  soul  ?  I  was  mourning 
over  the  fact  that  I  was  a  girl  shut  up  in  prison  when 
I  heard  that  your  knowledge  was  equalto  that  of 
Pang-So  and  your  virtue  and  loveliness  like  that  of 
the  ancients.  Though  you  do  not  pass  outside  your 
own  gateway,  yet  your  name  is  known  abroad  even  to 
the  Imperial  Palace.  You  have  not  refused  me  ad- 
mittance and  now  I  have  attained  my  heart's  dearest 
desire." 

Jewel  made  answer  :  "  Your  kind  words  will  live 
for  ever  in  my  humble  heart.  Locked  up  as  I  am  in 
these  inner  quarters,  my  footsteps  are  hindered  from 
freedom  and  my  sight  and  hearing  are  limited  to  this 
small  enclosure.  I  have  never  seen  the  waters  of  the 
wide  sea  nor  the  long  stretches  of  the  hills.  So  limited 
in  experience  and  knowledge  am  I  that  your  praise 
of  me  is  too  great  altogether." 

And  Jewel's  real  inner  heart  is  expressed  in  her 
prayer  to  Buddha  when  she  believed  that  she  would 
have  to  give  up  Yang,  who  was  under  royal  command 
to  wed  the  Imperial  Princess.  She  prayed  : 

**  Thy  disciple,  Kyong-pai,  by  means  of  her 
servant,  Cloudlet,  who  has  bathed  and  made  the 
required  offerings,  bows  low,  worships  and  makes 
her  petition. 

"  Thy  disciple  has  many  sins  to  answer  for,  sins 
of  a  former  existence  as  yet  unexpiated.  These 
account  for  her  birth  into  this  life  as  a  desolate  girl 
who  never  knew  the  joy  of  sisterhood.  Condescend, 
ye  Holy  Ones,  to  accept  this  prayer  of  mine,  extend 
to  me  pity  and  let  my  parents  live  long  like  the 

XXXV 


Introduction 

endless  measure  of  the  sky.  Grant  that  I  be  free 
from  sickness  and  trouble  so  that  I  may  be  able  to 
dress  neatly  and  to  please  them,  and  thus  play  out 
my  little  part  in  life  on  their  behalf.  When  their 
appointed  span  is  over  I  will  break  with  all  the 
bonds  of  earth,  submit  my  actions  to  the  require- 
ments of  the  law  and  give  my  heart  to  the  reading 
of  the  sacred  sutras,  keep  myself  pure,  worship  the 
Holy  One  and  make  payment  for  all  the  unmerited 
blessings  that  have  come  to  me. 

"  My  servant,  Cloudlet,  who  is  my  chosen  com- 
panion, brings  this  to  thee.  Though  in  name  we 
two  are  maid  and  mistress  we  are  in  reality  friend 
and  friend.  She  in  obedience  to  my  orders  became 
the  secondary  wife  of  General  Yang,  but  now  that 
matters  have  fallen  otherwise  and  there  is  no  longer 
hope  for  the  happy  affinity  that  was  ours,  she  too 
has  bade  a  long  farewell  to  him  and  has  come  back 
to  me  so  that  we  may  be  one  in  sorrow  as  well  as 
in  blessing,  in  death  as  well  as  in  life.  I  earnestly 
pray  that  the  divine  Buddha  will  condescend  to 
read  our  two  hearts  and  grant  that  for  all  genera- 
tions and  transmigrations  to  come  we  may  escape 
the  lot  of  being  born  women,  that  thou  wilt  put 
away  all  our  sins  of  a  former  existence,  give  blessing 
for  the  future  so  that  we  may  transmigrate  to  some 
happy  place  to  share  endless  bliss  for  ever." 

Cloudlet's  good-bye  to  Master  Yang  proves  that 
Jewel's  belief  in  her  devotion  and  loyalty  was  well 
founded.  Yang  had  tried  to  persuade  Cloudlet  that 
she  might  remain  with  him.  He  said  :  "  Your  de- 
votion to  your  mistress  is  most  commendable.  Still 

xxxvi 


Introduction 

your  lady's  person  and  yours  are  different.  While 
she  goes  north,  south,  east  or  west  as  she  chooses, 
your  following  her  and  at  the  same  time  attempt- 
ing to  render  service  to  another,  would  break  all  the 
laws  that  govern  a  woman's  existence." 

Cloudlet  replied  :  "  Your  words  prove  that  you 
do  not  know  the  mind  of  my  mistress.  She  has  already 
decided  to  remain  with  her  aged  parents.  When  they 
die  she  will  preserve  her  purity,  cut  off  her  hair, 
enter  a  monastery  and  give  herself  up  in  prayer  to 
the  Buddha,  in  the  hope  that  in  the  life  to  come  she 
may  not  be  born  a  woman.  I,  too,  will  do  just  the 
same  as  she.  If  your  lordship  intends  to  see  me  again 
your  marriage  gifts  must  go  back  to  the  rooms  of  my 
lady.  If  not,  then  to-day  marks  our  parting  for  life; 
Since  I  have  waited  on  your  lordship  I  have  been 
greatly  loved  and  favoured  and  I  can  never  repay  even 
in  a  hundred  years  a  thousandth  part  of  all  your  kind- 
ness. My  one  wish  is  that  in  the  life  to  come  I  may 
be  your  faithful  dog  or  horse.  .  .  ."  She  then  blessed 
him  and  turned  away  weeping  bitterly. 

VI.— HEAVEN  ON  EARTH 

Confucian,  Buddhist  and  Taoist  ideas  are  mingled 
throughout  the  story,  but  everyone  speaks  with  confi- 
dence of  Heaven  as  a  place.  While  the  Buddhist  con- 
ception of  Heaven  is  so  pure  that  no  earthly  desire 
can  exist  there,  Yang  is  carried  in  dreamland  to  a 
very  different  Heaven.  He  is  being  entertained  by  the 
Dragon  King,  who  desires  to  do  him  all  honour  and 
to  express  gratitude  for  Yang's  deliverance  of  the 
Dragon  King's  daughter  from  her  enemy.  After  being 

xxxvii 


Introduction 

borne  on  the  wind  to  a  spot  "  close  to  the  outskirts 
of  Heaven,"  they  arrive  at  the  palace,  where  a  gor- 
geous feast  is  spread  for  them. 

"  They  "  (the  Dragon  King,  Yang  and  the  Dragon 
King's  daughter)  "  drank  till  their  hearts  were  merry 
and  then  the  King  called  for  music.  Splendid  music 
it  was,  arranged  in  mystic  harmony  unlike  the  music 
of  the  earth.  A  thousand  giants,  each  bearing  sword 
and  spear,  heat  monster  drums.  Six  rows  of  dancing 
girls  dressed  in  phcenix  garb  and  wearing  bright 
moon  ornaments,  gracefully  shook  their  long  flowing 
sleeves  and  danced  in  pairs,  a  thrilling  and  enchant- 
ing sight." 

Yang  seems  to  have  touched  the  height  of  satiety 
also  at  a  festival  in  his  earthly  paradise.  We  read  : 

"  The  Master  (Yang)  and  the  Prince  were  com- 
pelled by  the  falling  shadows  of  the  evening  to  break 
up  the  feast  and  return.  They  gave  each  performer 
rich  presents  of  ^old,  silver  and  silk.  Grain  measures 
of  gems  were  scattered  about,  and  rolls  of  costly 
materials  were  piled  up  like  hillocks.  The  Master  and 
the  Prince,  taking  advantage  of  the  moonlight,  re- 
turned home  to  the  city  amid  the  ringing  of  bells. 
All  the  dancers  and  musicians  jostled  each  other 
along  the  way.  The  sound  of  gems  and  tinkUng 
ornaments  was  Uke  falling  water,  and  perfume  filled 
the  atmosphere.  Straying  hair-pins  and  jewelled 
ornaments  were  crushed  by  the  horses'  hoofs  and 
the  passing  of  countless  feet.  The  crowd  in  the  city, 
desiring  to  see,  stood  like  a  wall  on  each  side  of  the 
way.  Old  men  of  ninety  and  a  hundred  wept  tears 
of  joy,  saying :  '  In  my  younger  days  I  saw  his 
Majesty  Hyon-jong  (a.d.  713-736)  out  on  procession 

xxxviii 


Introduction 

and  his  splendour  alone  could  be  compared  with 
this.'  " 

We  smile  at  such  an  absurd  conception  of  life.  But 
it  is  to  this  strange  ideal  of  a  commingling  of  earthly 
paradises  and  fairy  heavens  that  the  world  owes  the 
exquisite  perfection  of  so  much  Chinese  craftsman- 
ship. The  artists  of  that  bygone  day  moulded  the 
drinking  vessels,  embroidered  the  robes,  fashioned 
the  jade  flutes  and  made  all  the  other  lovely  things 
worshipfully.  A  more  sophisticated  age  looks  almost 
with  despair  on  the  remnants  of  the  loveliness  they 
created. 

VII.— THE  PRESENT  TRANSLATION 

On  the  literary  presentation  of  this  work  a  word 
may  be  said.  Dr.  Gale  is  a  scholar  and  a  broad- 
minded  and  intensely  sympathetic  student  of  Orien- 
tal life.  His  first  aim,  his  compelling  aim,  is,  in  his 
own  words  to  the  writer,  "  to  contribute  towards 
some  more  correct  knowledge  of  the  Far  East." 
His  thoughts  are  on  a  faithful  interpretation  of  the 
Far  Eastern  mind  and  Far  Eastern  manners  rather 
than  on  those  felicities  of  word  and  phrase  with 
which  literary  reputations  are  sought.  We  have  had 
of  late  a  piece  of  Far  Eastern  translation  in  which 
too  much  was  sacrificed  to  literary  form.  Dr.  Gale 
makes  no  claim  whatever  to  literary  graces.  Only 
those  whose  knowledge  of  the  Korean  language,  life 
and  character  approaches  the  learning  of  Dr.  Gale 
may  safely  criticise  his  phrasings.  It  is  clear  that,  in 
executing  the  immense  task  he  set  himself,  his 
wish  has  been  to  write  down  the  simplest  possible 

xxxix 


Introduction 

renderings.  Some  may  wish  that  more  time  had  been 
spared  for  niceties  ;  no  reader  will  fail  to  feel  the 
self -suppression  of  the  translator  and  the  absence  of 
linguistic  or  other  affectations.  Because  there  is  no 
labouring  after  the  literary,  because  the  translator's 
heart  is  set  first  on  sincerity,  the  artless  happy  word 
and  phrase  constantly  occur.  The  way  in  which  this 
version  carries  us  through  the  mazes  of  a  story  on  a 
plan  so  foreign  to  that  of  Western  fiction  is  marvel- 
lous. The  work  must  enhance,  if  that  be  possible,  the 
reputation  of  Dr.  Gale  as  an  interpreter  of  the  Korean 
mind  and  increase  that  sense  of  obligation  which 
every  man  and  woman  who  wishes  to  grasp  something 
of  Far  Eastern  thought  and  sentiment  already  feels 
towards  this  unusual  man. 

ELSPET  KEITH  ROBERTSON  SCOTT 


xl 


The  Novel 


Chapter  I 
The  Transmigration  of  Song-jin 

THERE  are  five  noted  mountains  in  East  Asia. 
The  peak  near  the  Yellow  Sea  is  called  Tai- 
san,  Great  Mountain ;  the  peak  to  the  west, 
Wha-san,  Flowery  Mountain ;  the  peak  to  the  south, 
Hyong-san,  Mountain  of  the  Scales  ;  the  peak  to  the 
north,  Hang-san,  Eternal  Mountain  ;  while  the  peak 
in  the  centre  is  called  Soong-san,  Exalted  Mountain. 
The  Mountain  of  the  Scales,  the  loftiest  of  the  five 
peaks,  lies  to  the  south  of  the  Tong-jong  River,  and 
on  the  other  three  sides  is  circled  by  the  Sang-gang, 
so  that  it  stands  high,  uplifted  as  if  receiving  adoration 
from  the  surrounding  summits.  There  are  in  all 
seventy-two  peaks  that  shoot  up  and  point  their  spear- 
tops  to  the  sky.  Some  are  sheer  cut  and  precipitous 
and  block  the  clouds  in  their  course,  startling  the  world 
with  the  wonder  of  their  formation.  Stores  of  good 
luck  and  fortune  abide  under  their  shadows. 

The  highest  peaks  among  the  seventy-two  are 
called  Spirit  of  the  South,  Red  Canopy,  Pillars  of 
Heaven,  Rock  Treasure-house  and  Lotus  Peak,  five 
in  all.  They  are  sky-tipped  and  majestic  in  appear- 
ance, with  clouds  on  their  faces  and  mists  around 
their  feet,  and  are  charged  with  divine  influences  [i]. 
When  the  day  is  other  than  clear  they  are  shrouded 
completely  from  human  view. 

In  ancient  days,  when  Ha-oo  restrained  the  deluge 
that  came  upon  the  earth  [2],  he  placed  a  memorial 
stone  on  one  of  these  mountain  tops,  on  which  was 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

recorded  his  many  wonderful  deeds.  The  stone  was 
divinely  inscribed  in  cloud  characters,  and,  while 
many  ages  have  passed,  these  characters  are  clear 
cut  as  ever. 

In  the  days  of  Chin  See-wang  [3],  a  woman  of  the 
genii,  named  Queen  Wee,  who  became  a  Taoist  by 
divine  command,  came  with  a  company  of  angelic 
boys  and  fairy  girls  and  settled  in  these  mountains,  so 
that  she  was  called  Queen  Wee  of  the  Southern  Peak, 

It  is  impossible  to  relate  all  the  strange  and  won- 
derful things  that  have  been  associated  with  these 
mountain  fastnesses. 

In  the  days  of  the  Tang  dynasty  a  noted  priest 
came  hither  from  India,  and  being  captivated  by  the 
beauty  of  the  hills  built  a  monastery  on  Lotus  Peak. 
There  he  preached  the  doctrines  of  the  Buddha, 
taught  his  disciples,  and  put  an  end  to  fearsome 
demons  and  foul  spirits,  so  that  the  name  of  Gautama 
grew  great  in  influence,  and  people  bowed  before  it 
and  believed,  saying  that  God  had  again  visited  the 
earth.  The  rich  and  honourable  shared  of  their  abund- 
ance, the  poor  gave  their  labour,  and  so  they  built  a 
wide  and  spacious  temple.  It  was  deeply  secluded 
and  quiet,  with  a  thousand  and  one  beautiful  views 
encircling  it,  and  a  majesty  and  impressiveness  of 
mountain  scenery  for  background  that  was  unsur- 
passed. 

This  preacher  of  the  Buddha  had  brought  with 
him  a  volume  of  the  Diamond  Sutra,  which  he  ex- 
pounded so  clearly  that  they  called  him  Master  of 
the  Six  Temptations  and  the  Great  Teacher  of  the 
Yook-kwan.  Among  the  five  or  six  hundred  dis- 
ciples that  followed  him  there  were  some  thirty  well 

4 


The  Transmigration  of  Song-jin 

versed  in  the  teaching,  and  far  advanced.  One,  the 
youngest  of  them,  was  called  Song-jin,  Without 
Guile.  His  face  was  fair  and  beautiful  to  see  and  the 
light  of  his  expression  was  like  running  water.  He  was 
barely  twenty,  and  yet  he  had  mastered  the  three 
Sacred  Books.  In  wisdom  and  quickness  of  percep- 
tion he  surpassed  all  the  others,  so  that  the  Master 
greatly  loved  him  and  intended  later  to  make  him  his 
successor. 

As  the  Teacher  expounded  the  doctrine  to  his 
disciples,  the  Dragon  King  himself,  from  the  Tong- 
jong  Sea,  used  to  come  in  the  person  of  an  old  man 
dressed  in  white  clothes  to  listen  and  learn.  On  a 
certain  day  the  Teacher  assembled  his  pupils  and 
said  to  them  :  "I  am  now  an  old  man  and  frail  in 
body,  and  it  is  thirteen  years  and  more  since  I  have 
been  outside  the  mountain  gates.  Who  among  you 
will  go  for  me  to  the  Palace  of  the  Waters  and  pay 
my  respects  to  the  Dragon  King  ?  "  At  once  Song- 
jin  volunteered.  The  Teacher,  greatly  pleased  at 
this,  had  him  fitted  out  in  a  new  cassock,  gave  him 
his  ringed  staff  of  the  gods,  and  he  set  off  briskly 
towards  the  world  of  Tong-jong. 

Just  at  this  moment  the  priest  who  guarded  the 
main  entrance  to  the  monastery  came  to  say  that  the 
noble  Lady  of  the  Southern  Peak  had  sent  eight 
fairy  messengers  to  call,  and  that  they  were  now 
waiting  before  the  gate.  The  Master  gave  command 
that  they  be  admitted,  and  they  tripped  across  the 
threshold  in  modest  order,  circling  about  three  times 
and  then  bowing  and  scattering  the  blossoms  of  the 
genii.  They  knelt  reverently  and  gave  their  message 
from  the  Lady,  saying  :  "  The  noble  Teacher  lives 

5 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

on  the  west  side  of  the  mountain  and  I  on  the  east. 
While  the  distance  is  not  great,  and  we  are  com- 
paratively near  as  neighbours,  still  I  am  of  humble 
birth  and  am  so  busily  occupied  that  I  have  never 
come  even  once  to  the  sacred  temple  to  hear  the 
doctrine.  I  have  no  wisdom  of  my  own  to  keep  me 
in  touch  with  the  good,  but  now  I  am  sending  my 
serving  maidens  to  pay  my  respects,  and  at  the  same 
time  to  offer  to  your  Excellency  flowers  of  Paradise 
and  fairy  fruits,  along  with  some  other  gifts  of  silk, 
which  I  sincerely  trust  you  will  accept  as  a  token  of 
my  earnest  heart." 

Each  then  made  her  presentation  of  flowers  and 
treasures  to  the  Master.  These  he  received  and 
passed  on  to  his  disciples,  who  had  them  placed  as 
offerings  before  the  Buddha.  With  much  bowing 
and  folding  of  the  hands,  according  to  the  required 
ceremony,  he  replied  :  "  What  merit  has  an  old 
man  like  me,  I  pray,  to  have  such  gifts  as  these  pre- 
sented to  him  ?  " 

He  gave  liberally  to  the  eight  maidens  in  return 
and  they  set  off  lightly  on  their  way. 

They  passed  out  through  the  mountain  gate  hand 
in  hand,  talking  as  they  went.  Said  they  :  "  These 
divine  mountains  of  the  south,  being  of  one  range 
and  having  the  same  streams  encircling  them,  once 
upon  a  time  were  all  within  our  own  boundaries, 
but  since  the  setting  up  of  the  temple  of  the  Great 
Teacher  certain  limitations  have  shut  us  off  from 
freedom  so  that  we  have  not  seen  the  beautiful  places 
that  were  once  our  own.  Now  by  the  good  fortune 
of  our  Lady's  commands  we  are  here  in  this  valley 
at  this  lovely  season  of  the  year.  It  is  early  in  the  day. 

6 


The  Transmigration  of  Song-jin 

Let  us  take  the  occasion  to  go  up  to  the  heights  and 
have  a  breath  of  the  sweet  air  of  Lotus  Peak,  dip 
our  kerchiefs  in  the  Hmpid  water,  sing  a  verse  or 
two  and  awaken  our  souls  to  the  joy  of  Hfe.  On  re- 
turning home  we  shall  be  the  praise  and  envy  of  all 
our  sisters.  Let  us  do  this." 

They  set  off,  on  their  way  looking  down  with 
wonder  at  the  rushing  water,  walking  skilfully  along 
the  giddy  ridges  and  following  the  streams.  At  last, 
on  this  happy  day  of  the  third  moon  they  found 
themselves  on  the  stone  bridge  that  spanned  the 
torrent. 

All  the  flowers  were  in  bloom ;  the  streams  beneath 
them  sparkled  with  silvery  brightness.  There  hung 
a  tent-work  of  flowers  and  leaves  like  a  silken  canopy. 
The  birds  vied  with  each  other  in  the  beautiful  notes 
of  their  singing.  The  soft  breezes  awakened  glad 
and  happy  memories,  while  the  beauty  of  the  scene 
held  them  spellbound. 

Thus  were  the  eight  fairy  messengers  charmed  as 
they  sat  in  delight  on  the  bridge  looking  down  at 
the  wonderful  mirror  of  the  streams  that  met  and 
sparkled  in  a  crystal  pool  below.  Their  delicate 
eyebrows  and  glowing  bright  faces  shone  forth, 
reflected  in  the  water  as  if  seen  in  a  famous  picture 
from  a  master's  hand.  They  were  so  entranced  that 
they  had  no  thought  of  going  till  the  sun  began  to 
descend  toward  the  western  hills  and  the  day  to 
darken. 

At  this  moment  Song-jin  crossed  the  Tong-jong 
River  and  entered  the  Water  Palace  of  the  Dragon 
King.  His  Majesty  was  greatly  delighted  at  his 
coming,  stepped  outside  the  gates  to  meet  him,  took 

7 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

him  by  the  hand,  led  him  in  and  bid  him  share  his 
throne. 

Song-jin  made  his  obeisance  and  gave  his  message 
from  the  Master. 

The  King  in  response  bowed  low  and  ordered  a 
feast  of  welcome  to  be  prepared,  at  which  were  fruits 
and  dainties  of  the  fairies  in  abundance,  and  of  such 
flavour  as  the  dwellers  in  the  hills  alone  know.  The 
Dragon  King  himself  passed  the  glass  and  urged 
him  to  drink.  Song-jin  several  times  refused,  saying  : 
"  Wine  is  a  drink  that  upsets  and  maddens  the  soul, 
and  is  therefore  strictly  forbidden  by  the  Buddha, 
so  your  humble  servant  must  not  partake." 

But  the  Dragon  King  replied  :  "  I  am  aware  that 
among  the  five  things  forbidden  by  Gautama  wine 
is  one,  but  the  wine  that  I  offer  is  different  altogether 
from  the  maddening  kind  that  men  drink.  It  represses 
the  passions  and  quiets  the  soul.  You  will  not  mis- 
trust my  sincerity  in  offering  it  I  am  sure." 

Song-jin,  moved  by  this  kindness,  could  not  any 
longer  refuse,  and  he  drank  three  glasses.  He  then 
spoke  his  greeting  and  came  forth  from  the  Water 
Palace,  riding  on  the  wind  and  sailing  directly  for 
Lotus  Peak. 

When  he  had  landed  at  the  base  of  the  hill  the 
influence  of  the  wine  was  already  manifest  in  his 
face  and  a  feeling  of  dizziness  possessed  him,  so  that 
he  reprimanded  himself,  saying  :  "  If  my  honoured 
Master  sees  me  with  this  inflamed  expression 
how  startled  he  will  be  and  how  soundly  he  will 
chide  me." 

He  sat  down  by  the  bank  of  the  stream,  put  off 
his  outer  garments,  placed  them  on  the  clean  sand 

8 


The  Transmigration  of  Song-jin 

and  dipped  his  hands  in  the  limpid  water.  Thus  he 
sat  bathing  his  hot  face,  when  suddenly  a  strange 
and  mysterious  fragrance  was  borne  toward  him, 
not  the  perfume  of  orchid  or  musk  nor  that  of  any 
special  flower,  but  something  wholly  new  and  not 
experienced  before.  The  soul  of  passion  and  un- 
cleanness  seemed  dissipated  by  its  presence,  and  a 
purity  indescribable  seemed  to  remain.  He  said  to 
himself :  "  What  wonderful  flowers  are  these  by 
the  side  of  this  brook  that  such  sweet  perfume  should 
come  floating  on  its  wavelets  ?  I  will  go  and  see  from 
whence  it  comes," 

He  dressed  carefully,  followed  the  course  of  the 
stream  upwards,  and  found  the  eight  fairies  seated 
on  the  stone  bridge  so  that  they  met  suddenly  face 
to  face,  he  and  they. 

Song-jin  laid  aside  his  pilgrim's  staff  and  made  a 
deep,  low  bow,  saying  :  "  Ladies  of  the  Fairies' 
Paradise,  hear  what  a  poor  priest  has  to  say.  I  am  a 
disciple  of  the  Master  Yook-kwan  and  live  on  Lotus 
Peak.  Just  now  I  am  returning  from  a  mission  be- 
yond the  mountains  on  which  he  sent  me.  This  stone 
bridge  is  very  narrow,  and  you  goddesses  being 
seated  upon  it  block  the  way  ;  will  you  not  kindly 
take  your  lotus  footsteps  hence  and  let  me  pass  ?  " 

The  fairies  bowed  in  return  and  said  :  "  We 
attendants  who  wait  on  Queen  Wee  are  on  our  return 
from  carrying  a  message  of  goodwill  to  the  Master 
of  the  Temple,  and  have  stopped  here  for  a  little  to 
rest.  We  have  heard  that  it  is  written  in  the  Book  of 
Ceremony  concerning  the  law  of  the  road  that  man 
goes  to  the  left  and  woman  to  the  right.  Now  as  this 
bridge  is  a  very  narrow  one,  and  we  are  already  seated 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

here,  it  would  seem  more  fitting  that  you  should 
avoid  it  altogether,  and  cross  by  some  other  way." 

Song-jin  said  in  reply  :  "  But  the  water  of  the 
stream  is  deep,  and  there  is  no  other  way.  Where  do 
you  suggest  that  your  humble  servant  should  go  ?  " 

The  fairies  repUed :  "It  is  said  that  the  great 
Talma  [4]  came  across  the  ocean  on  a  leaf.  Now  if 
you  are  a  disciple  of  the  Teacher  Yook-kwan  and  have 
learned  the  doctrine  from  him,  naturally  you  will 
have  learned  to  do  some  such  wonderful  thing.  There 
surely  will  be  no  difficulty  for  you  to  cross  this  narrow 
stream  instead  of  standing  here  and  disputing  with 
us  girls  about  the  way." 

Song-jin  laughed  and  said  :  "  I  see  by  your  lady- 
ships' behaviour  that  you  ask  that  I  pay  some  price 
or  other  for  the  right  to  cross,  but  I  have  no  money, 
for  I  am  only  a  poor  priest.  I  have,  however,  eight 
jewels  which  I  will  present  to  you  if  you  will  kindly 
permit  me  to  pass  by." 

At  this  he  threw  the  peach  blossom  that  he  carried 
in  his  hand  before  them  and  it  became  four  couplets 
of  red  flowers,  and  these  again  were  transformed 
into  eight  jewels  that  filled  the  place  with  sparkling 
light,  shooting  up  to  heaven. 

The  fairies  each  picked  up  one  ;  then  they  looked 
toward  Song-jin,  laughed  in  a  delighted  way,  arose, 
mounted  the  winds  and  sailed  off  through  the  air. 

Song-jin  stood  at  the  head  of  the  bridge  and 
watched  them  for  a  long  time  till  they  were  lost  in 
the  clouds  and  the  sweet  fragrance  had  melted  away. 
In  loneliness,  as  though  he  had  failed  of  his  highest 
hopes,  he  came  back  to  the  temple  and  gave  his 
message  from  the  Dragon  King  to  the  Master. 

10 


The  Transmigration  of  Song-jin 

The  Master  reprimanded  him  for  his  late  return, 
and  Song-jin  said  :  "  The  Dragon  King  treated  me 
so  liberally,  sir,  and  his  urgent  request  to  stay  was 
so  impossible  to  refuse,  that  I  have  been  delayed 
beyond  the  time." 

The  Master  gave  no  direct  reply,  but  simply  said  : 
"  Go  away  and  rest." 

Song-jin  went  back  to  his  little  hut  of  meditation 
while  the  evening  shadows  closed  down  upon  the 
day.  Since  meeting  with  the  eight  fairies  his  ears  had 
been  ringing  with  sweet  voices,  and  though  he  tried 
to  forget  their  beautiful  faces  and  graceful  forms  he 
could  not  succeed.  However  much  he  endeavoured  to 
rein  in  his  thoughts  he  found  it  impossible.  His  mind 
was  as  that  of  a  person  half  insane  or  half  intoxicated. 
He  pulled  himself  together,  however,  and  knelt 
reverently,  saying  :  "  If  a  man  study  diligently  the 
Confucian  Classics  and  then  grow  up  to  meet  a  king 
like  Yo  or  Soon,  he  can  either  become  a  general  to 
go  abroad,  or  be  a  minister  of  state  at  home.  He  can 
dress  in  silk  and  carry  a  seal  of  office  at  his  belt ;  can 
bow  before  the  king  ;  can  dispense  favours  among 
the  people  ;  can  look  on  beautiful  things  with  the 
eyes  and  hear  delightful  sounds  with  the  ears.  He 
can  have  his  fill  of  glory  in  this  life,  and  can 
leave  a  reputation  for  generations  to  come  ;  but  we 
Buddhists  have  only  our  little  dish  of  rice  and  flask 
of  water.  Many  dry  books  are  there  for  us  to  learn, 
and  our  beads  to  say  over  till  we  are  old  and  grey. 
It  may  be  high  and  praiseworthy  from  the  point  of 
view  of  religion,  but  the  vacant  longings  that  it  never 
satisfies  are  too  deep  to  mention.  Even  though  one 
gets  to  understand  all  the  laws  of  the  Mahayana 

II 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

revelation,  though  one  proclaims  the  same  and  finds 
oneself  exalted  to  the  place  of  sage  and  teacher,  when 
once  the  spirit  and  soul  dissipate  into  smoke  and 
nothingness,  who  will  ever  know  that  a  person  called 
Song-jin  once  lived  upon  this  earth  ? " 

So  his  thoughts  wandered.  He  tried  to  sleep  but 
sleep  refused  to  come.  The  hours  grew  late.  Some- 
times he  closed  his  eyes  for  a  little,  but  the  eight 
fairies  persistently  appeared  before  him  in  a  row  and 
drove  sleep  far  away. 'Then  he  suddenly  realised 
that  the  great  purpose  of  Buddhism  was  to  correct 
the  thoughts  and  the  heart.  *'  I  have  been  a  Bud- 
dhist for  ten  years,"  said  he,  "  and  I  had  well-nigh 
succeeded  in  getting  done  with  the  world  till  this 
deceitful  mind  of  mine  got  itself  tangled  up  to  the 
damage  of  my  soul." 

He  burned  incense,  knelt,  called  in  all  his  thoughts, 
counted  his  beads,  recalled  to  his  consciousness  the 
thousand  Buddhas  that  could  help  him,  when  sud- 
denly one  of  the  temple  boys  came  to  his  window 
and  spoke,  saying  :  "  Elder  brother,  are  you  asleep  ? 
The  Master  is  calling  you." 

Song-jin,  in  alarm,  said  to  himself  :  "  His  calling 
me  in  this  unusual  way  in  the  middle  of  the  night 
can  only  mean  something  serious." 

He  went  along  with  the  boy  to  the  Audience  Hall 
of  the  Buddha,  where  the  chief  had  assembled  all 
the  priests  of  the  temple  and  was  sitting  in  solemn 
silence.  His  appearance  was  one  to  inspire  fear  and 
question.  The  light  of  the  candles  shone  brilliantly. 
He  spoke  with  great  care,  but  with  severe  intonation. 

"  Song-jin,  do  you  know  how  you  have  sinned  ?  " 

Song-jin,  who  was  bowed  low,  kneeling  before  the 

12 


The  Transmigration  of  Song-jin 

dais,  replied  :  "  I  have  now  been  a  disciple  of  the 
Master  for  ten  years  and  more,  and  have  never  dis- 
obeyed any  command  or  any  order  concerning  acts 
of  worship  in  which  I  have  had  a  part.  I  am  dark 
and  ignorant  I  know,  and  so  am  not  aware  of  how  I 
have  offended." 

The  Master  said  :  "  There  are  three  things  that 
must  be  exercised  in  the  ordering  of  one's  acts, 
namely,  the  body,  the  mind,  and  the  soul.  You  went 
to  the  Dragon  King  and  drank  wine,  did  you  not  ? 
Again,  on  your  way  back  by  the  stone  bridge  you  had 
a  long  and  frivolous  conversation  with  the  messengers 
of  Queen  Wee.  You  gave  them  each  a  flower  and 
made  jokes  and  light  talk.  Since  coming  back,  too, 
you  have  not  put  these  recollections  from  your  mind 
and  heart,  but  instead  have  allowed  yourself  to  be 
entangled  with  worldly  delights  ;  you  have  been 
thinking  of  riches  and  honour  with  all  the  other 
temptations  of  the  earth,  and  have  turned  with  loath- 
ing from  the  doctrine  of  the  Buddha.  Thus  your 
three  degrees  of  attainment  have  all  fallen  from  you 
in  a  single  hour.  You  can  remain  here  no  longer." 

Song-jin,  overcome  to  tears,  prayed  for  forgive- 
ness. He  said  :  "  Great  Master,  I  am  indeed  a  sinner. 
Still  my  breaking  the  rule  regarding  drink  was  be- 
cause the  king  so  forced  and  compelled  me  ;  and 
my  talking  with  the  fairies  was  only  because  I  asked 
of  them  the  way.  I  had  had  no  such  intention  in  my 
heart.  Why  am  I  thus  condemned  ?  I  will  go  back  to 
my  cell,  and  though  evil  thoughts  assail  me  I  will 
keep  my  spirit  awake  against  them  and  overcome 
their  madness,  so  that  a  true  mind  will  assuredly 
return.  I  will  bite  my  hands  and  I  will  repent  of  the 

13 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

wrong  I  have  done,  and  my  heart  will  be  restored. 
It  tells  in  Confucianism  how  one  can  thus  return  to 
the  right  way.  As  I  have  sinned  will  my  revered 
Father  not  give  me  a  flogging  and  set  me  right  ? 
This  is  what  I  understand  to  be  the  teaching  of  the 
Buddha.  Why  should  you  drive  me  away  from  all 
possibility  of  reformation  ?  I  came  to  you  when 
I  was  only  twelve  years  of  age,  gave  up  my  parents 
and  relatives,  cut  my  hair  and  took  the  vows  of  a 
priest,  and  ever  since  have  lived  dependent  on  you. 
It  is  just  as  though  you  had  begotten  me  and  brought 
me  up,  and  our  love  is  as  between  an  only  son  and  a 
father.  My  cell  is  the  special  meeting  place  of  the 
monastery,  and  my  hopes  are  all  here.  Where  shall 
I  go  ?  " 

The  Master  said  :  "  You  desire  to  go  and  that  is 
what  makes  me  send  you  off.  If  you  did  not  desire 
to  go  who  would  ever  think  of  sending  you  ?  You 
ask  '  Where  shall  I  go  ?  '  I  answer  '  To  the  place 
where  you  desire  to  go.'  " 

He  then  shouted  :  "  Hither,  Yellow  Turban 
Guards  !  "  Suddenly  the  commander  of  the  guard 
dropped  from  mid-air,  bowed  low  and  received  his 
orders. 

The  Master  said  :  "  Arrest  this  guilty  man,  take 
him  to  Hades,  hand  him  over  to  the  King  of  Youma 
and  then  come  back  to  me." 

When  Song-jin  heard  this  his  spirit  seemed  to 
depart  from  him,  his  eyes  streamed  over  with  tears, 
he  fell  forward  and  cried  out :  "  Father,  father, 
please  hear  me,  listen  to  what  I  have  to  say.  In  olden 
days  the  great  teacher  Aron  entered  the  house  of  a 
harlot  and  had  intercourse  with  her,  and  so  broke 

14 


The  Transmigration  of  Song-jin 

all  the  laws  of  the  Buddha.  Still  the  divine  Sokka  did 
not  condemn  him,  but  took  him  in  hand  and  showed 
him  more  clearly  the  way.  I  am  guilty  of  a  lack  of 
care,  but  still  as  compared  with  Aron  I  am  surely 
less  at  fault.  Why  do  you  send  me  thus  to  Hell  ?  " 

The  Teacher  replied  :  "  Even  though  Aron  fell 
into  sin,  still  his  mind  was  repentant ;  you,  on  the 
other  hand,  have  had  but  one  sight  of  these  seduc- 
tive things  and  have  lost  all  your  heart  to  them.  Your 
thoughts  are  now  turned  to  a  life  of  pleasure  and 
your  mouth  waters  for  the  riches  and  honours  of 
the  world.  If  we  compare  you  with  Aron  you  are 
worse  by  far.  You  cannot  escape  the  sorrow  and 
distresses  that  lie  before  you." 

Still  Song-jin  cried  for  mercy,  and  had  no  thought 
of  going,  so  that  the  stern  Teacher  comforted  him 
finally,  saying  :  "  While  your  mind  remains  un- 
purified  even  though  you  are  here  in  the  mountains, 
you  cannot  attain  to  the  truth  ;  but  if  you  never 
forget  it  and  hold  fast  you  may  mix  with  the  dust 
and  impurities  of  the  way,  and  your  return  is  safe 
and  sure.  If  you  ever  desire  to  come  back  here  I  will 
go  and  bring  you.  Depart  now  without  doubt  or 
question." 

There  being  no  help  for  it,  Song-jin  made  a  low 
bow  before  the  Master,  said  good-bye  to  his  priest 
companions,  and  went  along  vsrith  the  constables  of 
Hell  past  the  Look-out  Pavilion  till  he  came  to  the 
outer  walls,  where  the  guards  at  the  gate  asked  the 
cause  of  his  coming. 

The  constables  repUed  :  "At  the  order  of  the 
Teacher  Yook-kwan  we  have  arrested  this  guilty  man 
and  brought  him." 

15 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

The  soldier  guards  then  opened  the  gates  for 
them.  The  constables  reached  the  inner  enclosure 
and  announced  why  Song-jin  had  been  arrested. 
The  King  of  Hades  had  him  brought  in  and  then 
spoke  to  him  in  the  following  way  :  "  Honoured 
Master,  although  you  live  in  the  Nam-ak  Hills  under 
Lotus  Peak,  your  name  is,  already  on  the  incense 
table  before  the  great  King  Chee-jang  [5] .  I  have  said 
to  myself  that  hereafter  when  you  are  exalted  to  the 
throne  of  the  lotus  all  living  creatures  of  the  earth 
will  be  greatly  blessed  thereby.  For  what  possible 
cause  are  you  arrested  and  brought  here  thus  in  dis- 
grace ?  " 

Song-jin,  in  confusion  and  shame  of  face,  did  not 
reply  for  a  long  time.  At  last  he  said  :  "  I  met  the 
fairy  maidens  of  Queen  Wee  on  the  stone  bridge  of 
Nam-ak  and  failed  to  restrain  my  thoughts  about 
them.  Thus  I  sinned  against  my  Master  and  now  I 
await  the  commands  of  your  Majesty." 

The  King  of  Hades  sent  a  message  by  those  who 
waited  on  him  to  King  Chee-jang  that  ran  thus  : 
"  The  Teacher  Yook-kwan  of  Nam-ak  has  sent  me 
one  of  his  disciples  under  arrest  by  his  Yellow  Turban 
constables  in  order  that  we  may  decide  here  in  Hell 
as  to  his  guilt.  As  he  is  different  from  ordinary 
offenders  I  am  asking  counsel  of  your  High  Majesty." 

King  Chee-jang  replied  :  "A  man  who  would 
be  perfect  has  his  journey  to  make,  and  his  return, 
in  order  to  accomplish  all  things  in  accord  with  his 
own  will  and  purpose.  He  cannot  escape  it,  so  there 
is  no  use  to  discuss  the  matter." 

Just  as  the  King  of  Hades  was  about  to  decide, 
two  devil  soldiers  announced  that  the  Yellow  Turban 

16 


The  Transmigration  of  Song-jin 

guards,  by  command  of  Master  Yook-kwan,  had 
brought  eight  more  offenders,  who  were  outside  the 
gate  waiting.  When  Song-jin  heard  this  he  was 
greatly  alarmed. 

The  King  then  ordered  them  in,  when,  behold, 
all  the  eight  fairies  of  Nam-ak  came  haltingly  over 
the  threshold,  and  knelt  down  in  the  court.  The 
King  spoke,  saying  :  "  You  fairy  maidens  of  Nam-ak, 
listen  to  me.  Fairy  folk  live  in  the  most  beautiful 
worlds  that  are  known,  and  have  joys  and  delights 
beyond  measure.  How  is  it  that  you  have  come  to 
such  a  place  as  this  ?  " 

The  eight  in  great  shame  and  confusion  made 
reply  :  "  We  were  ordered  by  Queen  Wee  to  go 
and  make  inquiry  of  the  Teacher  Yook-kwan  as  to 
his  health  and  welfare.  On  our  way  back  we  met 
with  his  disciple  Song-jin,  and  because  we  talked 
with  him  the  Teacher  said  that  we  had  defiled  the 
sacred  precincts  of  the  hills,  and  he  wrote  and  asked 
that  we  be  sent  to  the  place  of  the  dead.  All  our  hopes 
and  prayers  are  with  your  Majesty.  Pray  have  mercy 
upon  us  and  let  us  go  once  again  into  the  world  of 
the  living." 

The  King  of  Hades  then  called  nine  messengers 
who  appeared  before  him.  He  ordered  them  in  a  low 
voice,  saying  :  "  Take  these  nine  and  get  them  back 
as  soon  as  possible  into  the  world  of  the  living." 

Scarcely  had  he  finished  when  a  great  wind  arose 
and  whirled  about,  carried  off  the  nine  into  space, 
drove  them  asunder,  and  sent  them  into  the  four 
corners  of  the  earth.  Song-jin,  following  his  leader, 
was  borne  along  by  the  wind,  tossed  and  whisked 
through  endless  space  till  he  seemed  at  last  to  land 

17  B 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

on  solid  ground.  Then  the  tempest  calmed  down. 
Song-jin  gathered  his  scattered  senses,  and  found 
himself  shut  in  by  a  range  of  hills  with  the  waters 
of  a  clear,  beautiful  stream  running  by.  He  also 
saw  inside  a  bamboo  paling  and  between  the  shady 
branches  of  the  trees  glimpses  of  thatched  roofs,  a 
dozen  or  more.  Two  or  three  people  were  standing 
and  talking  together.  They  said  in  his  hearing  :  "  The 
hermit  Yang's  wife,  now  over  fifty  years  of  age,  is 
to  give  birth  to  a  child,  a  marvellous  thing  indeed  ! 
We  have  expected  it  now  for  some  time,  but  no 
infant's  voice  is  yet  heard,  a  somewhat  anxious 
circumstance." 

Song-jin  said  to  himself  :  "  I  am  to  be  born  again 
among  men,  for  now  that  I  behold  myself  I  have  no 
body,  but  am  a  spirit  only.  My  body  I  left  on  Lotus 
Peak,  where  it  has  already  been  cremated,  and  be- 
cause I  was  so  young  I  had  no  disciples  to  take  my 
saree  [6]  and  safeguard  them." 

Thinking  thus  over  his  past  his  mind  was  dis- 
tressed, when  a  messenger  appeared  and  waved  his 
hand  to  him  to  come,  saying  :  "  This  is  So-joo  town- 
ship of  Hoi-nam  county,  of  the  Tang  Kingdom,  and 
this  is  the  home  of  the  hermit  Yang.  He  is  your  father, 
and  his  wife  Yoo  See  is  your  mother.  You  are 
destined  from  a  former  existence  to  be  a  son  in  this 
home.  Go  in  quickly  and  do  not  lose  the  favourable 
moment." 

At  once  he  went  in,  and  there  the  hermit  sat  with 
his  reed  hat  on  his  head  and  a  rough  hempen  coat 
wrapped  about  him.  He  had  before  him  a  brazier 
on  which  he  was  preparing  some  medicinal  drink, 
the  fragrance  of  which  filled  the  house.  In  the  room, 

i8 


The  Transmigration  of  Song-jin 

indistinctly,  there  were  heard  accents  of  suffering. 
The  messenger  urged  him  on,  saying, "  Go  in  quickly 
now,"  but  as  Song-jin  still  hesitated  and  delayed, 
the  messenger  pushed  him  from  behind  and  Song- 
jin  fell  to  the  ground,  when  suddenly  he  lost  con- 
sciousness, seeming  to  pass  into  some  great  con- 
vulsion of  nature.  He  called,  saying,  "  Save  me, 
save  me  !  "  but  the  sounds  stuck  fast  in  his  throat 
and  failed  to  find  expression,  so  that  they  became 
the  cries  of  a  little  child  only.  The  attendants  quickly 
informed  the  hermit  that  his  wife  had  borne  him  a 
beautiful  son.  He  took  the  medicinal  drink  that  he 
had  prepared,  went  close  up  to  her  and  they  looked 
at  each  other  with  happy  faces. 

When  Song-jin  was  hungry  milk  was  given  him, 
and  when  his  wants  were  satisfied  he  ceased  to  cry. 
When  first  born  his  little  mind  still  recollected  the 
happenings  on  Lotus  Peak,  but  when  he  grew  older 
and  learned  to  know  of  the  love  of  his  parents  the 
things  of  his  former  existence  faded  away,  so  that  he 
forgot  them  altogether. 

When  the  hermit  saw  how  handsome  he  was  and 
well  gifted  he  stroked  his  little  brow,  saying :  "  This 
child  has  indeed  come  from  heaven  to  sojourn  among 
us,"  so  he  called  his  name  So-yoo,  Little  Visitor, 
while  the  special  name  given  him  was  ChoUee, 
Thousands  of  Miles. 

Time  that  goes  like  running  water  saw  him  grow 
as  in  the  space  of  a  moment  to  ten  years  of  age. 
His  face  was  like  the  jade-stone  and  his  eyes  like  the 
stars  of  the  morning.  His  strength  was  firm  and  his 
mind  pure  and  bright,  showing  him  to  be  indeed  a 
Superior  Man.  The  hermit  said  to  his  wife  :  "  I  am 

19 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

originally  not  a  man  of  this  world,  but  because  I  was 
united  to  you  I  have  remained  long  among  the  dust 
of  this  mortal  way.  My  friends  of  the  genii  who  live 
on  Mount  Pong-nai  [7]  have  sent  me  many  messages 
asking  that  I  come.  On  account  of  your  labour  and 
sorrow,  however,  I  have  refused,  but  now  that  God 
has  blessed  us  and  given  us  a  gifted  son  superior  to 
others  in  his  attainments,  on  whom  you  can  rely  and 
by  whom  in  your  old  age  you  will  assuredly  see  riches 
and  honour,  I  shall  delay  no  longer  to  go." 

On  a  certain  day  a  number  of  the  genii  came  to 
escort  him  on  his  way.  They  rode  some  on  the  white 
deer,  some  on  the  blue  heron,  sailing  off  toward  the 
distant  hills.  Though  one  or  two  letters  came  at  in- 
tervals from  the  blue  sky,  no  traces  of  the  hermit  were 
ever  seen  on  earth  again. 


20 


Chapter  II 
A  Glimpse  of  Chin  See 

THE  Hermit  Yang  left  the  world  while  the 
mother  and  son  remained  and  lived  together. 
Already  before  So-yoo  (Song-jin)  was  in  his 
teens  he  manifested  extraordinary  attractiveness  and 
ability.  The  governor  of  his  county  called  him  the  Mar- 
vellous Lad,  and  recommended  him  to  the  Court.  But 
So-yoo  on  account  of  his  mother  declined  all  favours. 
When  he  was  fifteen  or  thereabouts,  with  his  frank  and 
handsome  face,  he  was  said  to  resemble  Panak  [8] 
of  ancient  China.  His  physical  strength,  too,  was 
unrivalled,  and  his  skill  in  the  classics  and  com- 
position was  excellent.  In  astronomy  and  geomancy 
he  was  well  trained,  while  in  military  knowledge, 
such  as  tossing  the  spear  and  fencing  with  the  short 
sword,  he  was  indeed  a  great  wonder.  Nothing 
could  stand  before  him.  In  his  former  existence  he 
had  been  a  man  of  refined  tastes,  so  his  mind  was 
clear  and  his  heart  kindly  disposed  and  liberal.  He 
deftly  solved  the  mysteries  of  life  as  one  would  split 
the  bamboo.  Different  altogether  was  he  from  the 
common  run  of  men. 

Said  he  one  day  to  his  mother  :  "  When  my  father 
went  up  to  heaven  he  entrusted  the  reputation  and 
honour  of  his  home  to  me,  and  yet  here  we  are  so 
poor  that  you  are  compelled  to  toil  and  struggle.  To 
live  here  like  a  mere  watch-dog  or  a  turtle  that  drags 
its  tail  and  makes  no  effort  to  rise  in  the  world  means 
that  we  shall  be  blotted  out  as  a  family.  I  shall  never 

21 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

comfort  your  heart,  and  shall  fail  of  the  trust  that 
my  father  has  imposed  in  me.  I  hear  just  now  that 
Government  Examinations  are  to  be  held  and  that 
they  are  open  to  any  candidate  of  the  empire.  May 
I  not  leave  you  for  a  little  and  try  my  skill  ?  " 

While  Yoo  See,  his  mother,  had  no  desire  to  re- 
strain this  good  purpose  on  the  part  of  her  son,  she 
feared  for  the  long  journey  that  he  would  have  to 
take.  However,  since  his  spirit  was  awake  and  anxious 
to  go  she  gave  her  consent.  Selling  what  few  treasures 
she  had  she  provided  means  for  the  journey. 

He  then  bade  her  good-bye,  and  with  a  limping 
donkey  and  a  little  serving-boy  to  accompany  him, 
he  set  out  on  the  way.  The  views  of  mountain  and 
stream  by  which  he  passed  were  specially  fine,  and 
since  the  opening  of  the  examination  was  still  some- 
what distant,  he  lingered  as  he  went  along  looking 
at  points  of  interest  and  seeking  out  old  landmarks 
and  records. 

At  a  certain  place  as  he  went  by  he  saw  a  neat  and 
tidy  house  surrounded  by  a  beautiful  grove  of  shady 
willow  trees.  A  blue  line  of  smoke,  like  silken  rolls 
unwinding,  rose  skyward.  In  a  retired  part  of  the 
enclosure  he  saw  a  picturesque  pavilion  with  a  beau- 
tifully kept  approach.  He  slowed  up  his  beast  and 
went  near  to  enjoy  the  prospect.  The  encircling 
boughs  and  leaves  barely  permitted  him  to  make  out 
through  their  shade  a  wonderful  fairy  world. 

So-yoo  pushed  aside  the  intervening  greenery 
and  lingered  for  a  time,  unwilling  to  go.  He  sighed 
and  said  :  "  In  our  world  of  Cho  there  are  many 
pretty  groves,  but  none  that  I  ever  saw  so  lovely  as 
this." 

22 


A  Glimpse  of  Chin  See 

He  rapidly  composed  and  wrote  a  poem,  which 
ran  : 

"  Willows  [9]  hung  like  woven  green, 
Veiling  all  the  view  between, 
Planted  by  some  fairy  free, 
Sheltering  her  and  calling  me. 

Willows,  greenest  of  the  green. 
Brushing  by  her  silken  screen. 
Speak  by  every  waving  wand, 
Of  an  unseen  fairy  hand." 

When  he  had  jotted  this  down  he  sang  it  out  with 
a  rich,  clear  voice,  the  notes  of  which  resounded  like 
the  clink  of  silver  or  the  echoing  tones  of  crystal.  It 
was  heard  in  the  top  storey  of  the  pavilion,  where  a 
beautiful  maiden  was  having  a  midday  siesta.  She 
awoke  with  a  start,  pushed  aside  the  arm-rest  on 
which  she  leaned,  and  sat  up.  She  then  opened  the 
embroidered  shade  and  looked  out  through  the  painted 
railing  here  and  there.  Whence  came  this  singing? 
Suddenly  her  eyes  met  those  of  So-yoo,  while  her 
hair,  like  a  tumbled  cloud,  rested  soft  and  warm 
upon  her  temples.  The  long  jade  pin  that  held  the 
plaits  together  had  been  pushed  aside  till  it  showed 
slantwise  through  her  tresses.  Her  sleepy  eyelids 
were  still  somewhat  weighted,  and  her  expression 
was  as  though  she  had  just  emerged  from  dream- 
land. Rouge  and  cosmetics  had  vanished  under  the 
unceremonious  hand  of  sleep,  and  her  natural  beauty 
was  unveiled,  a  beauty  impossible  to  picture  and 
such  as  no  painting  has  ever  portrayed. 

The  two  looked  at  each  other  with  a  fixed  and 

23 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

startled  expression,  but  said  not  a  word.  So-yoo  had 
sent  his  boy  ahead  to  order  his  affairs  at  the  inn,  and 
now  he  suddenly  returned  to  announce  that  it  had 
been  so  done.  The  maiden  looked  straight  at  So- 
yoo  for  a  moment,  and  then  suddenly  recollected 
herself,  closed  the  blind  and  disappeared  from  view. 
A  suggestion  of  sweet  fragrance  was  borne  to  him 
on  the  breeze. 

So-yoo  regretted  at  first  that  the  boy  had  disturbed 
him  by  his  announcement.  And  now  that  the  blind 
had  closed  it  was  as  though  a  thousand  miles  of  the 
Yang-tze  had  cut  him  off  from  all  his  expectations. 
So  he  went  on  his  way,  looking  back  at  times  to  see, 
but  the  silken  window  was  made  fast  and  did  not 
again  open.  He  reached  the  inn  with  a  sense  of  loss 
and  home-sickness  upon  him,  and  with  his  mind 
mixed  and  confused. 

The  family  name  of  the  maiden  was  Chin,  and  her 
given  name  Cha-bong.  She  was  the  daughter  of  a 
Government  Commissioner,  and  had  lost  her  mother 
early  in  life.  No  brothers  or  sisters  had  she  ever  had, 
and  now  she  had  attained  to  the  age  when  girls  do 
up  their  hair,  but  she  was  still  unmarried. 

The  Commissioner  had  gone  up  to  the  capital  on 
official  business,  and  so  the  daughter  was  alone  when 
she  thus  unexpectedly  met  the  eyes  of  So-yoo.  His 
handsome  face  and  manly  bearing  attracted  her 
wonderfully.  Hearing,  too,  the  verses  that  he  sang 
she  was  carried  away  with  admiration  for  his  skill  as 
a  scholar,  and  thus  she  thought  to  herself : 

'*  The  woman's  lot  in  life  is  to  follow  her  husband. 
Her  glory  or  her  shame,  her  experiences  for  the  span 
of  life  are  wrapped  up  in  her  lord  and  master.  For 

24 


A  Glimpse  of  Chin  See 

this  reason  Princess  Tak-moon,  although  a  widow, 
followed  General  Sa-ma.  I  am  yet  an  unmarried  girl 
and  dislike  dreadfully  to  become  my  own  go-be- 
tween and  propose  marriage,  but  it  is  said  that  in 
ancient  times  courtiers  chose  their  own  king,  so  I 
shall  make  inquiry  concerning  this  gentleman  and 
^find  his  name  and  place  of  residence.  I  must  do  so 
at  once  and  not  wait  till  my  father's  return,  for  who 
knows  whither  he  may  have  gone  in  the  meantime, 
or  where  I  may  search  for  him  in  the  four  quarters 
of  the  earth." 

She  unclasped  a  roll  of  satin  paper,  wrote  a  verse 
or  two  and  gave  it  to  her  nurse,  saying  :  "  Take  this 
letter  to  the  city  guest-hall  and  give  it  to  the  gentle- 
man who  rode  past  here  on  the  little  donkey  and 
sang  the  Willow  Song  as  he  went  by.  Let  him  know 
that  my  purpose  is  to  find  the  one  that  is  destined 
for  me,  and  on  whom  I  may  depend.  Know  forsooth 
that  this  is  a  very  important  matter  and  one  that 
forbids  your  acting  in  a  light  or  frivolous  way.  The 
gentleman  is  handsome  as  the  gods  ;  his  eyebrows 
are  like  the  loftiest  touches  of  a  picture,  and  his 
form  among  common  men  is  like  the  phoenix  among 
feathered  fowls.  See  him  now  for  yourself  and  give 
him  this  letter." 

The  nurse  replied  :  "  I  shall  be  careful  to  do  just 
as  you  have  commanded,  but  what  shall  I  say  if  your 
father  should  inquire  later  ?  " 

"  I  shall  see  to  that  myself,"  said  Chin  See,  "  so 
do  not  be  anxious." 

The  nurse  then  left,  but  returned  again  in  a  little 
to  ask  :  "  What  shall  I  do  if  the  gentleman  is  already 
married  or  engaged  ?  " 

25 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

On  hearing  this  the  maiden  thought  for  a  moment 
and  then  repUed  :  "If  that  unfortunately  be  so  I 
shall  not  object  to  become  his  secondary  wife.  He  is 
young,  but  whether  he  is  married  or  not,  who  can 
tell  ?  " 

The  nurse  then  went  to  the  guest-hall  and  asked 
for  the  gentleman  who  had  sung  the  Willow  Song. 
Just  at  that  moment  So-yoo  stepped  out  of  the  ^- 
trance  into  the  court,  and  there  he  met  the  old  dame 
who  came  bearing  the  message.  He  responded  at 
once  and  said  :  "  Your  humble  servant,  madam,  is 
responsible  for  the  Willow  Song.  Why  do  you  ask 
me?" 

When  the  nurse  saw  his  handsome  face  she  no 
longer  doubted  his  being  the  one  in  question,  and 
softly  said  :   "  We  cannot  speak  here." 

So-yoo,  wondering,  led  her  into  the  guest-house, 
and  when  they  were  seated  quietly  he  asked  why  she 
had  come. 

"  Will  your  Excellency,"  said  she  in  answer, 
"  please  tell  me  where  you  sang  the  Willow  Song  ?  " 

So-yoo  replied  :  "  I  am  from  a  far  distant  part  of 
the  country  and  have  come  for  the  first  time  into  the 
neighbourhood  of  the  capital.  The  beauty  of  it  de- 
lights my  soul.  To-day  at  noon  as  I  was  passing  along 
the  main  highway  I  saw  to  the  north  of  the  road  a 
little  pavilion  with  a  grove  of  green  willows,  ex- 
quisitely beautiful.  I  could  not  restrain  my  joy,  and 
so  wrote  a  verse  or  two  which  I  sang,  but  why  does 
your  excellent  ladyship  ask  concerning  that  ?  " 

The  nurse  replied  :  "  Did  your  Excellency  meet 
anyone  at  that  time,  or  come  face  to  face  with  any 
stranger  ?  " 

26 


A  Glimpse  of  Chin  See 

So-yoo  made  answer:  "  Your  servant  came  face 
to  face  with  a  beautiful  fairy,  who  looked  down  upon 
him  from  the  pavilion  by  the  way.  Her  lovely  features 
I  see  still  and  the  fragrance  of  her  presence  has  filled 
the  world." 

The  nurse  went  on  :  "I  shall  speak  directly  to 
the  point.  The  house  you  mention  is  the  home  of  my 
master,  Commissioner  Chin,  and  the  lady  you  refer 
to  is  his  daughter.  From  childhood  she  has  been 
pure  of  heart  and  gifted  in  mind  and  soul,  with  a 
wonderful  talent  for  knowing  people.  She  saw  your 
Excellency  but  once  and  for  a  moment,  yet  her  desire 
is  to  entrust  herself  to  you  for  ever  ;  but  the  Com- 
missioner is  away  from  home  in  the  capital  and  he 
must  needs  return  before  any  decision  can  be  arrived 
at.  Most  important  is  the  matter,  however,  and  in 
the  meantime  your  Excellency  may  be  far  enough 
away  like  the  floating  seaweed  on  the  drift,  or  the 
autumn  leaves  in  the  wind  that  blows.  Fearing  she 
might  never  again  find  you,  she  has  sent  me  to  say 
that  the  destiny  of  life  is  the  all  important  subject, 
while  the  diffidence  of  the  moment  and  the  fear  to 
speak  of  it  are  but  a  passing  unpleasantness.  Thus 
has  she,  contrary  to  good  form  and  her  bringing  up, 
written  this  letter  and  ordered  me,  her  old  servant, 
to  ask  your  excellent  name  and  place  of  residence." 

When  So-yoo  heard  this  he  was  greatly  interested, 
as  his  countenance  showed.  He  thanked  her,  and 
said  :  "  My  name  is  Yang  So-yoo,  and  my  home  is  in 
the  land  of  Cho.  I  am  young  and  not  yet  married. 
Only  my  aged  mother  is  alive,  and  while  the  mar- 
riage question  is  one  that  will  need  inquiry  on  the 
part  of  both  our  clans,  still  consent  to  the  contract 

27 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

may  be  given  even  here  and  now,  and  so  for  my  part 
I  consent  at  once,  and  swear  it  by  the  long  green 
hills  of  Wha-san  and  the  endless  reaches  of  the  Wee- 
soo  River." 

The  nurse,  delighted  at  her  success,  took  a  letter 
from  her  sleeve,  gave  it  to  So-yoo,  who  tore  it  open 
and  found  a  poem  which  read  : 

"  Willows  waving  by  the  way. 
Bade  my  lord  his  course  to  stay. 
He,  alas,  has  failed  to  ken, 
Draws  his  whip  and  rides  again." 

When  So-yoo  had  read  the  verse  and  noted  its 
brightness  and  freshness,  he  praised  it,  saying  :  "  No 
ancient  sage  ever  wrote  more  sweetly."  Then  he 
unrolled  a  sheet  of  watered  paper  and  wrote  his 
reply  thus  : 

"  Willow  catkins  soft  and  dear, 
Bid  thy  soul  to  never  fear. 
Ever  may  they  bind  us  true, 
You  to  me,  and  me  to  you." 

The  nurse  received  it,  placed  it  in  her  bosom,  and 
went  out  through  the  main  gateway  of  the  guest- 
hall,  but  So-yoo  called  her  again,  saying:  "The 
young  lady  is  a  native  of  Chin,  while  I  belong  to 
Cho.  Once  we  separate,  a  thousand  miles  come  be- 
tween us.  With  hills  and  streams  and  the  windings 
of  the  way,  it  will  be  difficult  indeed  to  get  messages 
back  and  forth.  We  have  no  go-between  to  make 
proof  of  our  contract,  so  I  would  like  to  go  by  moon- 
light and  see  my  lady's  beautiful  face.  What  think 

28 


A  Glimpse  of  Chin  See 

you  ?  In  her  letter  there  is  some  such  suggestion,  is 
there  not  ?  Please  ask  her." 

The  nurse  consented,  and  on  her  return  gave  the 
message  to  the  maiden.  "  Master  Yang  has  sworn  by 
the  Lotus  Hills  and  the  long  stretches  of  the  river 
that  he  will  be  your  companion.  He  praised  your 
composition  most  highly,  and  wrote  a  reply  which 
I  have  brought  you."  She  then  handed  it  to  the  lady. 

The  maiden  received  the  letter,  read  it,  and  her 
face  lighted  up  with  joy. 

Again  the  nurse  went  on  to  say  :  "  Master  Yang 
has  asked  if  it  would  be  agreeable  to  you  to  have  him 
come  quietly  by  moonlight  and  write  another  message 
which  you  could  enjoy  together." 

Her  answer  was  :  "  It  is  not  good  form  for  a  young 
man  and  a  young  woman  to  meet  before  marriage. 
I  am  promised  to  him,  it  is  true,  and  that  makes  a 
difference.  If  we  meet  at  night,  however,  it  might 
cause  unseemly  rumour,  and  also  my  father  would 
reprimand  me  for  it.  Let  us  wait  till  noon  to-morrow 
and  meet  in  the  great  hall  and  there  seal  our  happy 
contract.  Go  and  tell  him,  will  you  ?  " 

The  nurse  went  once  again  to  the  inn  and  told  the 
young  master  what  had  been  said. 

He  expressed  his  regret  and  made  reply  :  "  The 
lady's  pure  heart  and  right  ordered  words  put  me 
to  shame."  Several  times  he  urged  upon  the  nurse 
that  there  should  be  no  failure  in  their  plans,  and  so 
she  left. 

While  Master  Yang  slept  in  the  guest-house  his 
thoughts  were  agitated  and  on  the  wing,  so  that  he 
did  not  rest  well.  He  got  up  and  waited  for  the  crow- 
ing of  the  cock,  impatient  at  the  length  of  the  long 

29 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

spring  night.  Suddenly  the  morning  star  began  to 
dawn  and  the  awakening  drums  to  beat.  He  called 
his  boy  and  ordered  him  to  feed  the  donkey.  At 
this  point  an  unexpected  inrush  of  mounted  troops 
greeted  the  city  with  all  the  clamour  that  goes  with 
an  army  rabble.  Like  a  great  river  they  went  thunder- 
ing by,  hurrying  in  from  the  west.  In  fear  he  hastily 
gathered  up  his  effects  and  looked  out  into  the  street, 
where  the  whole  place  seemed  filled  with  armed 
men  and  fleeing  people.  The  confusion  was  in- 
describable, and  the  earth  rang  with  the  thunders  of 
it,  while  the  wailing  of  the  citizens  shook  the  very 
sky. 

He  asked  someone  standing  by  what  it  meant,  and 
was  told  that  it  was  the  rebel  Koo  Sa-ryong  [lo]  who 
had  risen  against  the  Government  and  proclaimed 
himself  Emperor.  His  Majesty  was  away  on  a  visit 
of  inspection  in  Yang-joo,  and  so  the  whole  capital 
was  in  a  state  of  hopeless  confusion,  with  the  rebels 
everywhere  robbing  the  homes  of  the  people.  There 
was  word,  too,  that  they  had  locked  the  gates  of  the 
city  so  that  no  one  could  escape,  and  were  enlisting 
by  force  rich  and  poor,  every  man  who  could  bear 
arms. 

Master  Yang,  in  a  state  of  fear  and  bewilderment, 
got  hold  of  his  boy  and  hastened  away  with  the 
donkey  toward  the  south  mountain,  that  stood  just 
in  front,  hoping  to  hide  himself  among  the  rocks  or 
in  some  cave.  He  looked  up  and  saw  on  the  highest 
peak  a  little  thatched  house  that  seemed  to  hang  in 
the  shadows  of  the  clouds,  with  the  voices  of  cranes 
echoing  about  it.  Thinking  it  the  home  of  some 
dweller  in  the  city,  he  went  to  it,  picking  his  way, 

30 


A  Glimpse  of  Chin  See 

when  suddenly  he  was  confronted  by  a  Taoist  genius 
who,  seated  on  his  mat,  saw  the  young  man  coming 
toward  him.  He  got  up,  greeted  him,  and  asked  : 
"  Are  you  making  your  escape  from  the  confusion 
of  the  city,  and  are  you  indeed  the  son  of  the  hermit 
Yang  who  Uved  in  Hoiram  county  ?  " 

So-yoo  gave  a  sudden  start  of  surprise,  bowed 
low,  broke  out  into  expressions  of  wonder,  and  said 
in  reply  :  "  I  am  indeed  the  son  of  the  hermit  Yang. 
Since  the  departure  of  my  father  I  have  lived  with 
my  old  mother,  I  am  dull  and  slow  of  intellect  and 
have  learned  next  to  nothing,  and  yet  presumptuously 
thinking  that  I  might  have  some  chance  to  pass  the 
examination,  I  came  as  far  as  Wha-eum  when  this 
rebellion  blocked  my  way.  In  trying  to  make  my 
escape  I  entered  these  mountain  recesses  and  have 
been  so  fortunate  as  to  meet  your  Excellency.  God 
has  helped  me  to  such  a  meeting  I  know.  I  have  not 
heard  of  my  father  for  so  long,  and  as  time  has  gone 
by  my  soul  waits  more  impatiently  than  ever  for 
news  from  him.  As  I  hear  your  words  I  am  sure 
you  have  definite  knowledge  of  him.  I  pray  you, 
lord  of  the  fairies,  do  not  withhold  anything,  but  give 
a  son  the  greatest  comfort  that  can  come  to  him.  In 
what  height  does  my  father  dwell,  please,  and  how  is 
he  in  health  ?  " 

The  fairy  master  smiled  and  said  in  reply  :  "  Your 
father  and  I  have  just  had  a  game  of  draughts  to- 
gether on  Cha-gak  mountain  peak,  and  only  said 
good-bye  a  little  time  ago  ;  but  I  cannot  tell  you 
where  he  has  gone.  His  face  is  not  changed  a  whit, 
nor  has  his  hair  grown  grey,  so  you  do  not  need 
to  be  anxious  about  him," 

31 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Yang  replied  in  tears,  saying  :  "I  wish  the  noble 
teacher  would  help  me  just  once  to  meet  my  father.'- 

But  the  master  smilingly  replied :  "  The  love 
between  son  and  father  is  great,  but  still  mortals 
and  the  genii  are  of  two  different  orders.  I  should 
like  to  help  you,  but  it  is  impossible.  The  hills 
where  the  genii  live  are  distant,  and  their  ten  pro- 
vinces wide  and  far-reaching,  so  that  it  is  impossible 
to  know  just  where  your  father  dwells.  Now  that 
you  are  here,  stay  for  a  time,  and  when  the  way  opens 
again  it  will  be  all  right  for  you  to  go." 

Though  Yang  heard  that  his  father  was  well,  still 
the  fact  that  the  teacher  had  no  intention  of  bring- 
ing about  a  meeting  beclouded  his  hopes  ;  tears 
rained  from  his  eyes  and  his  goul  was  in  deep  dis- 
tress. However,  the  holy  man  comforted  him,  saying: 
"  To  meet  and  to  part  is  one  of  life's  common  ex- 
periences ;  also  to  part  and  to  meet  again.  Why  do 
you  cry  over  the  inevitable  ?  " 

Then  Yang  brushed  his  tears  away,  thanked  him 
and  sat  down.  The  teacher  pointed  to  a  harp 
hanging  on  the  wall  and  asked  :  "  Can  you  play 
that  instrument  ?  " 

Yang  replied  :  "I  have  some  ear  for  music  but 
have  never  had  a  teacher,  and  so  do  not  have  a 
practised  hand." 

The  genius  then  had  the  harp  brought,  gave  it  to 
Yang  and  told  him  to  try. 

Yang  took  it,  placed  it  on  his  knees  and  played  a 
tune  called  "  The  Wind  in  the  Pines." 

The  teacher,  delighted,  said  :  "  You  have  skill 
and  are  really  worth  teaching."  He  then  took  the 
harp  himself  and  taught  him  in  succession  four 

32 


A  Glimpse  of  Chin  See 

different  selections.  The  music  of  it  was  entrancing, 
and  such  as  no  mortal  had  ever  listened  to  before. 
Yang  was  by  nature  a  skilful  hand  at  the  harp  and 
had  a  well-trained  mind,  so  that  when  he  once  caught 
the  spirit  of  it  he  was  master  of  the  mystery. 

The  genius  sage,  seeing  this,  was  delighted,  brought 
out  also  his  jade  flute,  and  after  playing  a  tune  taught 
it  to  Yang,  saying  :  "  Even  among  the  ancients  it 
was  rare  indeed  that  two  should  meet  who  are  masters 
of  music.  Now  I  present  this  harp  to  you  and  this 
jade  flute.  You  will  find  use  for  them  later  on.  Guard 
them  safely  and  remember  what  I  have  told  you." 

Yang  received  them,  bowed  low  and  spoke  his 
thanks,  "  Your  humble  servant's  good  fortune  in 
thus  meeting  the  lord  of  the  genii  is  due  to  my  ex- 
cellent father.  He  has  led  the  way  for  me,  and  you 
are  my  father's  friend.  How  could  I  serve  you  other 
than  as  I  serve  him  ?  I  long  to  devote  my  life  to  you 
as  your  disciple." 

The  teacher  smiled  and  said  in  reply  :  "  The 
glory  and  honour  of  the  world  lie  before  you  and 
are  urging  you  on.  There  is  no  withstanding  their 
power.  It  would  never  do  for  you  to  spend  your 
time  here  in  the  hills  with  me.  Your  world  differs 
from  mine,  and  you  were  not  intended  for  my  dis- 
ciple. Still  your  earnest  thought  I  shall  remember, 
and  I  here  present  you  with  the  book  '  Paing  cho- 
pang  '  in  order  that  you  may  not  forget  my  love  for 
you.  If  you  once  master  this  law,  though  you  may  not 
attain  to  earthly  immortality,  still  old  age  will  be  long 
deferred." 

Yang  again  arose,  bowed  low  and  received  it,, 
saying  :   "  The  great  teacher  has  said  that  I  am  tO' 

33  *" 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

enjoy  riches  and  honour.  I  would  like  to  ask  about 
my  other  prospects.  I  have  just  decided  to  arrange 
marriage  with  the  daughter  of  a  gentleman  of  Wha- 
eum  county,  but  have  been  caught  by  this  rebellion 
and  compelled  to  fly  for  my  life,  without  definitely 
deciding.  Will  this  wedding  turn  out  propitious  or 
not  ?  " 

The  teacher  laughed  loudly,  saying  :  "  Marriage 
is  a  matter  hidden  in  mystery  and  one  must  not  talk 
lightly  of  God's  plans.  Still  several  beautiful  women 
are  destined  for  you,  and  so  you  have  no  need 
specially  for  this  daughter  of  Wha-eum." 

Yang  knelt  and  received  this  word  and  then  went 
with  the  teacher  to  the  guest-room,  where  they 
spent  the  night.  Before  the  day  dawned  the  genius 
awoke  Yang  and  said  :  "  The  way  is  now  clear  for 
you  to  go,  and  the  examination  is  postponed  till  the 
coming  spring.  Your  mother  will  be  anxiously  wait- 
ing. Hasten  back  to  her  and  quiet  her  faithful  heart." 
He  gave  him  also  money  for  the  way. 

Yang,  after  saying  a  hundred  thanks,  set  out  on 
his  journey,  his  harp  with  him,  his  flute,  and  his 
sacred  book.  As  he  left  the  place  the  sadness  of 
departure  was  borne  in  upon  his  heart,  so  that  he 
turned  to  look  back  just  once  more,  but  already  the 
house  and  the  genius  were  gone  and  only  the  day 
remained  with  the  white  clouds  sailing  by,  fresh 
and  clean. 

When  Yang  entered  the  hills  the  willows  were  in 
bloom  and  the  catkins  not  yet  fallen  ;  and  now  in  a 
single  night  the  chrysanthemums  were  all  aglow. 
He  asked  concerning  this,  and  was  told  that  it  was 
the  eighth  moon  of  autumn.  He  went  to  seek  the 

34 


A  Glimpse  of  Chin  See 

inn  where  he  had  stayed,  but  it  had  passed  through 
a  war  meanwhile  and  was  not  the  same  at  all.  The 
whole  world  seemed  changed,  in  fact.  A  great  crowd 
of  candidates  was  gathered  and  he  asked  about  the 
rebellion.  They  said  that  soldiers  had  been  enlisted 
from  all  the  provinces  and  that  the  rebels  had 
been  put  down,  that  the  emperor  had  returned  to 
the  capital,  and  that  the  examination  had  been  post- 
poned till  the  next  spring. 

Yang  went  to  see  the  home  of  Commissioner  Chin, 
but  only  the  faded  willows  greeted  him,  as  they 
trembled  in  the  wind  and  frost.  Not  a  trace  was 
there  left  of  its  former  beauty.  The  ornamented 
pavilion  and  the  whitened  walls  were  but  dust  and 
ashes.  Stones,  blackened  with  smoke,  and  broken 
tiles  lay  heaped  up  in  the  vacated  enclosure,  while 
the  surrounding  village  was  all  in  ruins.  There  were 
no  sounds  of  domestic  life,  no  animals  or  birds. 
Yang  mourned  over  the  transitory  nature  of  life's 
affairs,  and  how  a  happy  agreement  had  ended 
in  desolation.  He  caught  the  willow  branches  in  his 
hands,  and  turning  toward  the  evening  sky  sang 
over  the  Willow  Song  that  the  maiden  Chin  See 
had  written.  His  tears  fell  and  his  heart  was  indescrib- 
ably sad.  There  was  no  one  from  whom  he  could 
inquire  concerning  the  catastrophe,  so  he  came  back 
to  the  inn  and  asked  of  the  inn-master  :  "  Can  you 
tell  me  what  has  become  of  the  family  of  Commis- 
sioner Chin  ?  " 

The  inn-master  twisted  a  wry  face,  saying  :  "  Has 
not  your  Excellency  heard  what  became  of  them  } 
The  Commissioner,  it  seems,  went  up  to  the  capital 
on  official  business  while  his  daughter  and  servants 

35 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

remained  at  home.  It  turned  out  later,  after  peace 
was  restored,  that  Chin  had  been  in  league  with  the 
rebels,  and  so  he  was  arrested  and  beheaded.  The 
daughter  was  taken  to  the  capital.  Some  say  that 
she  too  was  condemned  ;  some  that  she  had  be- 
come a  yamen  slave,  and  only  this  morning,  seeing 
a  crowd  of  prisoners  passing  the  door,  I  asked  who 
they  were  and  where  they  were  going,  and  was  told 
that  they  were  slaves  bound  for  Yong-nam,  and 
someone  added  that  among  them  was  Chin  See,  the 
Commissioner's  daughter." 

Yang  heard  this,  and  was  again  cut  deep  with 
sorrow.  He  remarked  :  "  The  master  of  the  South 
Hill  said  that  marriage  with  Chin  See  would  be  like 
groping  blindly  in  the  night.  She  is  dead,  I  suppose, 
and  there  will  be  no  longer  any  possibility  of  in- 
quiry." So  he  packed  up  his  baggage  and  started  for 
his  native  province. 

During  this  time,  Yoo  See,  his  mother,  had  heard 
of  the  war  and  of  the  attack  made  on  the  capital, 
and  fearing  lest  her  son  should  be  in  danger,  she 
called  on  God  with  all  her  heart,  and  prayed  till  her 
face  grew  thin  and  her  form  poor  and  emaciated.  It 
seemed  as  though  she  could  not  physically  long 
endure  it.  Beholding  her  son  return  safe  and  sound, 
she  clasped  him  to  her  bosom,  and  wept  as  for  one 
who  had  been  dead  and  come  to  life  again,  so  trans- 
ported was  she  with  joy. 

In  their  talks  together  the  fading  year  departed. 
Winter  went  its  way  and  the  spring  came  round, 
and  Yang  once  again  made  preparation  for  departure 
to  attend  the  examination. 

Yoo  See  said  :    "  Last  year  you  experienced  all 

36 


A  Glimpse  of  Chin  See 

sorts  of  danger  on  your  way,  so  that  my  soul  still 
trembles  as  I  think  of  it.  You  are  young  yet,  and 
there  is  plenty  of  time  for  fame  and  fortune.  Still  I 
must  not  forbid  your  going  as  your  wish  is  mine 
also.  This  Soojoo  county  is  too  narrow  and  isolated 
for  a  scholar's  world.  No  one  here  is  socially  your 
equal,  or  with  ability  or  bringing-up  sufficient  for 
your  companionship.  You  are  now  eighteen,  and  it 
is  high  time  that  you  decide  lest  you  lose  life's  fairest 
opportunity.  In  the  Taoist  Kwan  (Temple)  of  the 
capital  I  have  a  cousin,  the  priestess  Too-ryon.  She 
has  been  a  guide  to  the  world  of  the  fairy  for  many 
a  year,  and  yet  she  is  still  alive.  Her  appearance  is 
commanding  and  her  wisdom  very  great,  I  am  told. 
She  is  acquainted  with  all  the  noted  families,  too, 
and  the  nobility.  If  you  give  her  a  letter  from  me  she 
will  treat  you  like  a  son,  and  will  certainly  assist  you 
in  your  selection  of  a  helpmeet.  Bear  this  in  mind," 
said  she,  and  wrote  the  letter. 

So-yoo,  hearing  what  his  mother  had  said,  told 
of  his  meeting  with  Chin  See  of  Wha-eum,  and  at 
once  his  face  clouded  over  with  sorrow.  Yoo  See 
sighed  and  said  :  "  Even  though  Chin  See  was  so 
beautiful  she  was  evidently  not  destined  for  you. 
It  is  unlikely  that  a  child  of  such  confasion  and 
disaster  could  live.  Even  though  she  be  not  dead,  it 
would  be  very  difficult  to  find  her.  Leave  off  vain 
thoughts  of  her,  I  pray,  and  seek  a  wife  elsewhere. 
Comfort  your  mother  and  do  as  she  desires." 

The  young  man  bade  her  farewell  and  started  on 
his  way.  He  reached  Nakyang[ii],  and  a  sudden 
storm  of  rain  overtaking  him,  he  made  his  escape 
into  a  wine  shop  that  stood  outside  the  South  Gate, 

37 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

where  he  purchased  a  drink.  He  inquired  of  the 
master,  saying  :  "  This  is  fairly  good  wine,  but 
have  you  no  better  ?  " 

The  host  said  :  "I  have  none  other  than  this.  If 
you  desire  the  best,  however,  you  will  find  it  sold  at 
the  inn  at  the  head  of  the  Chon-jin  Bridge.  It 
is  called  '  Nakyang  Springtime.'  One  measure  of 
it  costs  a  thousand  cash.  The  flavour  is  very  good 
indeed,  but  the  price  is  high." 

Yang  thought  for  a  moment  and  said  :  "  Nakyang 
has  been  the  home  of  the  Emperor  since  ancient 
time,  a  very  busy  and  splendid  city,  such  as  the 
world  looks  on  as  supreme.  I  went  last  year  by  another 
road  and  so  did  not  see  its  sights.  I  shall  stop  this 
time  to  look  through  it." 


38 


Chapter  III 
The  Meeting  with  Kay  See 

MASTER  SO-YOO  bade  his  servant  pay  for 
the  drink  and  rode  off  on  his  donkey  towards 
Chon-jin  Bridge.  When  he  passed  within 
the  city  walls  he  was  struck  by  the  beauty  of  the 
surrounding  scenery,  and  the  crowds  of  people  con- 
firmed the  reports  he  had  heard  of  its  being  a  very 
busy  world.  The  Nakyang  River  flowed  across  the 
city  like  a  strip  of  white  silk,  and  Chon-jin  Bridge 
spanned  its  rippling  wavelets  with  archways  bearing 
down  at  the  extreme  ends  as  a  rainbow  drinks  the 
water,  or  like  a  green  dragon  with  bent  back.  The 
red  ridges  of  the  housetops  rose  high  above  the  city, 
their  blue  tiles  reflecting  back  the  rays  of  the  sun. 
Their  grateful  shadows  fell  upon  the  perfumed  way. 
To  So-yoo  the  city  seemed  the  metropolis  of  all  the 
world.  Hastening  forward  till  he  reached  the  Chon-jin 
Pavilion,  So-yoo  stopped  in  front  of  it,  where  many 
finely  caparisoned  horses  were  tied,  grooms  and 
servants  bustling  about  amid  noise  and  confusion. 
So-yoo  looked  up,  and  from  the  upper  storey  of  the 
pagoda  came  sounds  of  music  that  filled  the  air,  while 
the  fragrance  from  rich  dresses  and  silken  robes  was 
wafted  on  the  breeze. 

The  young  master,  thinking  that  the  governor  of 
Ha-nam  must  be  giving  a  feast,  sent  his  boy  to  in- 
quire. He  discovered  that  the  young  literati  of  the 
city  had  brought  certain  dancing  girls  with  them 
and  were  planning  an  evening's  amusement.  So-yoo, 

39 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

somewhat  under  the  influence  of  wine,  with  his  spirit 
awake  to  youthful  adventure,  dismounted  from  his 
donkey  and  went  inside  the  hall.  He  found  there  a 
dozen  or  so  of  young  men  with  a  score  of  pretty  girls 
sitting  gracefully  about  on  the  silken  matting,  with 
dainty  tables  of  food  and  drink  placed  before  them. 
Laughter  and  jesting  went  on  in  merry  and  hilarious 
tones.  All  the  dresses  were  of  the  finest  fabrics  and 
their  appearance  very  striking. 

Master  Yang  said  :  "I  am  a  humble  literatus 
from  a  remote  province  on  my  way  to  take  part  in 
the  Government  examination,  and  when  passing 
here  heard  the  sound  of  sweet  music.  My  foolish 
heart,  unable  to  go  by  without  a  greeting,  has  set 
aside  all  ceremony  and  come  in  as  an  uninvited  guest. 
Please  forgive  me,  noble  gentlemen." 

Noting  Yang's  handsome  face,  intelligent  bear- 
ing, and  well-measured  words,  they  arose  with  one 
accord  and  responded  to  his  salutation,  giving  him  a 
place  beside  them,  each  announcing  his  name.  Among 
them  was  a  certain  student  No,  who  said  :  "  Brother 
Yang,  since  you  are  a  scholar  on  your  way  to  the  exami- 
nation, though  not  an  invited  guest,  you  are  welcome, 
and  may  take  part  in  the  entertainment  for  the  day. 
We  are  delighted  to  have  so  distinguished  a  visitor, 
and  you  have  no  reason  in  the  world  to  apologise." 

Yang's  reply  was  :  "  I  see  by  your  gathering  that 
it  is  not  one  at  which  to  eat  and  drink  only,  but  one 
where  verses  are  written,  and  where  a  man  may  try 
his  skill  of  hand  at  the  character.  For  such  an  ignora- 
mus as  I  from  the  obscure  confines  of  Cho  to  push 
my  way  in  here  to  a  seat  among  you  and  to  a  part  in 
the  feast  is  a  very  rash  and  impudent  thing." 

40 


The  Chun-jin  Pavilion 


The  Meeting  with  Kay  See 

Seeing  how  humble  Yang  was,  and  how  apparently 
unsophisticated,  they  all  felt  for  him  an  undisguised 
condescension,  and  said  in  reply  :  "  Brother  Yang, 
your  suggestion  that  we  have  a  trial  of  skill  at  the 
character  is  very  good,  but  since  you  are  the  late 
comer  we  will  let  you  off  if  you  so  desire.  You 
may  write  or  not  just  as  you  please.  Have  a  drink 
with  us  and  a  pleasant  time."  So  they  urged  him, 
passing  the  glass  and  calling  on  the  dancing-girls  to 
sing. 

Yang  looked  at  the  dancers  assembled  and  saw 
that  all  twenty  of  them  were  persons  of  striking  ap- 
pearance. Among  them  was  one  specially  noticeable, 
who  sat  in  a  lady-like  and  modest  way,  neither  play- 
ing nor  talking.  Her  face  was  very  beautiful  and  her 
form  was  most  graceful,  such  as  few  on  earth  could 
rival.  She  might  have  been  likened  to  the  merciful 
goddess  Kwan-se-eum,  who  sits  aloft  in  her  silken 
picture.  Yang  felt  his  mind  moved  by  her  presence, 
and  forgot  all  about  the  feasting  and  the  drink.  She 
also  looked  straight  at  him,  and  by  her  expression 
seemed  to  pass  him  a  message  of  recognition.  He 
also  saw  that  there  were  many  compositions  in  verse 
piled  up  before  her,  so  he  said  to  the  gentlemen  : 
"  I  presume  that  these  compositions  are  by  your 
excellencies  ;  I  would  like  permission  to  read  them." 

Before  they  could  reply  the  dancer  herself  arose, 
brought  them  and  placed  them  before  him. 

He  looked  them  over,  one  by  one.  Among  them 
were  some  fair  compositions  of  an  average  grade,, 
but  nothing  striking  or  of  special  excellence.  He  said 
to  himself  :  "  I  used  to  hear  that  the  gifted  literati 
of  Nakyang  were  masters  at  the  pen,  but  seeing  these 

41 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

I  count  that  a  false  report."  He  gave  back  the  com- 
positions to  the  fair  lady,  made  a  bow  to  the  gentle- 
men and  said  :  "A  humble  countryman  like  myself 
never  had  a  chance  to  read  the  writings  of  the  capital 
before.  Now  by  good  fortune  I  have  had  the  oppor- 
tunity and  my  heart  has  been  made  glad." 

The  various  guests  had  by  this  time  become  quite 
exhilarated.  They  laughed  in  reply  :  "  Brother,  you 
have  thought  only  of  the  beauty  of  the  composition ; 
you  do  not  know  what  beauty  of  reward  goes  with  it." 

Yang  made  answer  :  "I  have  already  had  special 
proof  of  your  kindness,  and  in  the  passing  of  the 
glass  have  been  permitted  to  become  an  intimate  and 
sworn  friend.  Why  don't  you  also  tell  me  what  this 
beauty  of  reward  is  of  which  you  speak  ?  " 

They  laughed  again  and  said :  "  Why  should  we 
not  ?  There  is  an  old  saying  that  the  wisdom  of 
Nakyang  is  very  great,  and  that  if  in  the  Government 
examination  our  candidate  does  not  come  off  the 
winner  he  surely  will  have  second  place.  We  all  here 
are  sharers  in  the  matter  of  literary  reputation,  and 
so  cannot  act  as  our  own  judges.  But  yonder  fair 
dancer's  family  name  is  Kay  Som-wol  and  her  given 
name  is  Moonlight.  She  is  not  only  the  first  singer 
and  dancer  of  this  East  Capital,  she  is  a  master  hand 
at  the  pen,  and  knows  by  intuition  as  the  gods  do. 
All  the  scholars  of  Nakyang  consult  her  as  to  the 
probabilities  of  the  examination.  She  decides  and 
they  pass  or  fail  like  the  fittings  of  the  tally.  Never 
is  there  a  mistake  in  her  estimate.  Thus  have  we  each 
given  over  to  her  our  compositions  to  have  her  point 
out  their  defects,  to  pronounce  on  that  which  specially 
meets  her  approval,  and  to  sing  it  over  for  us  with 

42 


The  Meeting  with  Kay  See 

the  harp.  She  is  our  judge,  and  we  await  her  unerring 
verdict.  Kay  See's  name  is  the  same  as  that  of  the 
famous  cinnamon  tree  of  the  moon,  and  she  will  in- 
dicate for  us  the  next  successful  candidate.  Won't 
you  try  your  hand  as  well,  and  is  not  this  a  glorious 
opportunity  ?  " 

Master  No  said  :  "  There  is  beyond  this,  too,  a 
still  more  interesting  fact,  namely,  that  the  one  whose 
composition  she  selects  and  sings  will  have  Kay  See 
for  his  fair  companion.  We  are  all  friends  here  and 
hopeful  candidates.  Brother  Yang,  you  are  a  man 
as  well  as  we,  and  appreciate  the  joys  and  delights 
of  life.  Will  you  not  accept  the  invitation  and  be  a 
competitor  in  this  trial  of  skill  ?  " 

Yang  replied  :  "I  have  not  written  for  so  long  a 
time,  I  really  do  not  know  what  I  can  do.  Has  not 
Kay  See  sung  you  the  winner's  verses  yet  ?  " 

Master  Wang  replied  :  "  The  fair  lady  has  not 
once  struck  the  harp  or  opened  her  cherry  lips.  Her 
pearly  teeth  have  not  parted,  nor  has  a  single  note 
greeted  our  ears.  We  have  evidently  not  written  up 
to  her  demands,  so  her  heart  is  unmoved  and  weighed 
down  for  shame  of  us." 

"  Your  humble  servant,"  said  Yang,  "  is  from  the 
distant  land  of  Cho  and  though  I  have  written  verses 
I  am  an  outsider,  and  am  afraid  to  venture  on  a  con- 
test with  you  honourable  gentlemen." 

Wang,  however,  shouted  out :  "  The  Master 
Yang  is  prettier  than  a  girl — ^why  is  it  that  he  fails 
in  the  spirit  of  a  gallant  knight  ?  The  Sage  says  :  '  If 
it  is  a  question  of  good  to  be  done,  step  not  aside 
even  for  your  teacher,'  and  again, '  It  is  the  duty  of 
the  Superior  Man  [12]  to  do  his  best.'  I  doubt  not 

43 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

that  Master  Yang  is  no  hand  at  the  pen.  If  he  were, 
why  should  he  be  so  modest  concerning  this  small 
venture  ?  " 

Now  although  Yang  had  modestly  desired  to 
decline  this  unexpected  invitation,  when  he  beheld 
the  fair  dancer  Kay  See  he  was  all  awake  to  the 
occasion.  There  was  no  power  now  to  restrain  him, 
so  he  caught  up  a  sheet  of  paper  that  lay  on  the 
matting,  selected  a  pen  and  wrote  three  stanzas. 
His  writing  was  like  a  boat  on  the  sea  scudding  be- 
fore the  wind,  or  like  a  thirsty  horse  making  straight 
for  a  stream  of  water.  The  various  guests  caught  the 
spirit  of  the  composition  so  strong  and  swift,  and 
seeing  how  the  characters  crowded  forth  from  his 
pen  like  flying  magic,  were  all  startled  and  turned 
pale. 

Yang  then  threw  down  the  pen,  and  said  to  the 
guests  :  "I  ought  to  ask  the  opinion  of  you  gentle- 
men first,  but  to-day  as  Kay  See  is  judge  and  as  the 
time  allowed  is  passing,  with  your  kind  permission 
I'll  hand  it  directly  to  her." 

The  verses  read  : 

"  The  man  from  Cho  moves  west  and  enters  Chin, 
He  sees  the  wine  pavilion  and  boldly  steps  within. 
Now  who  shall  pluck  the  flower  from  the  tree  with- 
in the  moon, 
And  claim  the  winner's  honour  and  the  fairy's 
magic  tune  ? 

The  catkins  of  the  willow  they  float  o'er  Chun- 

jin's  stream. 
The  gem-wrought  shades  of  many  ply  close  out 

the  sun  between ; 

44 


The  Meeting  with  Kay  See 

Our  ears  awake  to  hear  a  song  of  special  gift  and 

grace, 
Our  eyes  behold  in  silken  scenes  a  gifted  fairy's 

face. 

The  flowers  of  spring  are  filled  with  awe  and  drop 
their  heads  for  shame, 

They  sense  her  song,  they  feel  her  step,  the  fra- 
grance of  her  name  ; 

The  passing  shadows  stay  their  course,  unwilled 
to  steal  away. 

The  lighted  halls  of  gladsomeness  proclaim  my 
winning  day." 

For  a  moment  Moonlight  let  her  awakened  vision 
rest  on  the  composition,  and  then  her  clear  voice 
broke  forth  into  singing  sweet  and  compelling.  The 
cranes  stepped  forth  into  the  city  commons  to  cheer 
her,  and  the  phoenixes  made  their  responses.  Flutes 
lost  their  charm,  and  the  harp  its  store  of  sweet 
melody.  The  hearers  were  intoxicated  by  the  music, 
and  all  faces  turned  pale.  Out  of  contempt  they  had 
compelled  Yang  to  write,  but  now  when  his  com- 
position had  become  the  song  that  Moonlight  sang, 
their  joy  gave  place  to  envy,  and  they  looked  at  each 
other  speechless  with  dismay.  To  think  of  giving 
Moonlight  over  to  this  unknown  stranger  roused 
rebellious  feelings.  Their  desire  was  to  break  the 
agreement,  but  such  an  act  of  dishonour  was  hard 
to  suggest,  so  they  sat  gagged  and  dazed  looking  at 
each  other. 

Yang  saw  their  ominous  faces,  and  at  once  got  up 
and  made  his  farewell :   "All  unexpectedly  I  have 

45 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

met  with  so  kindly  a  welcome  from  you  gentlemen, 
and  have  boldly  taken  part  in  this  happy  contest.  I 
have  eaten  and  drunk  of  your  hospitality,  for  which 
I  thank  you  most  heartily.  Having  still  a  long  way  to 
go  I  cannot  spend  more  time  with  you  as  I  would 
like,  but  must  now  take  my  departure.  Let  us  meet 
again  at  the  winner's  festival  on  the  close  of  the 
Government  [13]  examination,"  so  he  quickly  took 
his  leave,  none  of  the  guests  detaining  him. 

When  he  had  passed  outside  of  the  pavilion  and 
was  about  to  mount  his  donkey,  Moonlight  came 
suddenly  out  and  said  to  him  :  "  On  the  south  side 
of  the  road  you  will  see  a  house  enclosed  by  a  white 
wall  with  cherry  blossoms  lining  the  way  ;  that's 
my  home.  Go  there,  please,  and  wait  for  me.  I  shall 
come  at  once."  He  nodded  and  started  off  in  the 
direction  indicated. 

Moonlight  re-entered  the  pavilion  and  said  to  the 
guests  :  "  You  gentlemen  have  highly  honoured  me, 
and  have  permitted  me  to  sing  a  song  by  which  my 
destined  one  is  made  known.  What  is  your  wish  in 
the  matter  ?  " 

They  could  not  hide  their  feelings  of  disgust,  and 
said  in  reply  :  "  Yang  is  an  outsider  and  not  one  of 
ourselves  ;  you  are  not  called  upon  to  concern  your- 
self with  him."  They  talked  and  discussed,  and  said 
this  and  that,  but  came  to  no  conclusion. 

Moonlight,  with  determination  written  on  her 
pretty  face,  replied  :  "  I  have  no  confidence  in  people 
who  break  faith.  You  have  plenty  of  music  here, 
please  continue  to  enjoy  yourselves.  Kindly  excuse 
me,  I  am  feeling  unwell,  and  so  cannot  stay  until 
the  end."  She  arose  and  went  slowly  out.  Because 

46 


The  Meeting  with  Kay  See 

of  the  agreement  that  had  been  made,  and  also  by 
reason  of  her  quiet  dignity,  they  dared  not  say  a 
word. 

In  the  meantime  Yang  had  gone  to  his  inn,  packed 
up  his  baggage  and  started  in  the  darkness  for  Moon- 
light's home.  She  had  already  arrived,  had  put  in 
order  the  entry  hall,  lighted  the  lamps  and  was  wait- 
ing. He  tied  his  donkey  to  a  cherry  tree  and  rapped 
at  the  double-panelled  gate.  At  the  sound  she  slipped 
on  her  light  shoes  and  came  out  quickly.  "  You 
left  before  I  did,"  said  she,  "  but  I  am  here  ahead  of 
you — how  does  this  happen  ?  " 

Yang  replied  :  "  The  host  awaits  the  guest,  not 
the  guest  the  host.  I  had  no  heart  to  be  late,  but '  my 
horse  is  slow,'  as  the  old  saying  runs." 

They  met  with  great  delight  as  those  destined  for 
each  other.  She  passed  him  the  glass  of  welcome 
and  bade  him  sing.  His  voice  was  sweet  and  such  as 
to  awaken  and  captivate  the  soul. 

She  said  :  "  I  am  yours  from  to-day,  and  shall 
tell  you  my  whole  heart  in  the  hope  that  you  will 
condescend  to  take  pity  on  me.  I  am  originally  from 
So-joo.  My  father  was  a  secretary  of  that  county, 
but  unfortunately  he  fell  ill  and  died  away  from 
home.  Because  we  were  poor,  and  his  station  far 
distant,  he  was  buried  without  the  required  forms. 
Having  lost  his  protecting  arm,  my  step-mother  sold 
me  as  a  dancing-girl  for  one  hundred  yang.  I  accepted 
the  disgrace,  stifled  my  resentful  soul,  and  did  my 
best  to  be  faithful,  praying  to  God,  who  has  had 
pity  on  me,  so  that  to-day  I  have  met  my  lord  and 
can  look  again  upon  the  light  of  sun  and  moon.  Be- 
fore the  approaches  of  my  home  is  the  main  roadway 

47 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

that  leads  to  the  market  square.  There  is  no  cessa- 
tion to  the  sound  of  traffic  that  passes  day  and  night. 
None  come  or  go  without  resting  there.  Thus  for 
four  or  five  years  I  have  had  a  chance  to  study 
thousands  of  passers-by,  and  yet  never  has  one  passed 
by  who  is  equal  to  my  master.  We  have  met  and  now 
my  hopes  are  realised.  Unworthy  as  I  am,  I  would 
gladly  become  your  serving-maid  to  prepare  your 
food  and  do  your  bidding.  What  is  your  thought 
toward  me,  please  ?  " 

Yang  comforted  her  with  many  kind  words  and 
expressions  of  appreciation  :  "I  am  drawn  to  you," 
said  he,  "  as  truly  and  as  deeply  as  you  are  drawn  to 
me,  but  I  am  only  a  poor  scholar  with  an  old  mother 
depending  on  me.  I  should  like  nothing  better  than 
to  grow  old  with  you  as  husband  and  wife,  but  I  am 
not  yet  sure  of  my  mother's  wishes,  and  I  am  afraid 
you  would  be  unwilling  to  have  her  choose  you  as 
my  secondary  wife,  with  some  unknown  stranger 
to  take  first  place.  Even  though  you  had  no  objection 
to  it  yourself,  I  am  sure  there  is  no  one  your  superior 
or  even  your  equal.  This  is  my  perplexity." 

Moonlight  said  in  reply  :  "  Why  do  you  say  so  ? 
There  is  no  one  in  the  world  just  now  equal  to  thee, 
my  master.  I  need  not  say  to  you  that  you  are  to  win 
the  first  place  in  the  coming  examination,  and  in  a 
little  you  are  to  carry  the  seal  of  a  minister  of  state, 
and  the  insignia  of  a  great  general's  authority.  All 
the  world  will  desire  to  follow  you  ;  who  am  I  that 
I  should  expect  to  have  you  to  myself  ?  Please,  my 
lord,  when  you  are  married  to  some  maiden  of  high 
degree  and  you  receive  your  mother  under  your 
faithful  care,  kindly  remember  me.  Assuredly  I  shall 

48 


The  Meeting  with  Kay  See 

keep  myself  pure  for  thee  only,  and  shall  be  at  thy 
commands  alone." 

"  Some  time  ago,"  said  Yang,  "  I  went  through 
Wha-joo  city  and  caught  by  chance  a  passing  glimpse 
of  one,  Commissioner  Chin's  daughter.  Her  beauty 
and  her  talents  were  not  unlike  those  of  yourself. 
Now,  alas,  she  is  gone,  not  to  be  seen  again  I  fear. 
Where  would  you  suggest  then  that  I  find  your  equal 
or  superior  ?  " 

"  The  person  you  refer  to,"  said  Moonlight,  "  is 
undoubtedly  the  daughter  of  Commissioner  Chin, 
whose  name  is  Cha-bong.  When  he  was  formerly 
magistrate  of  our  county  his  daughter  and  I  were 
bosom  friends.  She  is  a  surpassing  mystery  of  love- 
liness, like  Princess  Tak-moon  [14].  But  there  is  no 
use  in  thinking  of  her  ;  let  your  jthoughts  go  else- 
where, I  pray  you." 

Yang  said  :  "  It  is  an  old  undertsanding  that  not 
many  special  marvels*  of  beauty  are  born  into  the 
world  at  one  and  the  same  time.  Now  we  have  the 
maiden  Moonlight  and  Chin  See,  two  who  have 
known  and  seen  each  other.  I  am  afraid  that  the 
powers  of  heaven  and  earth  are  exhausted  and  that 
no  more  such  are  living." 

Moonlight  laughed,  and  said  :  "  Your  words  are 
like  those  of  the  tadpole  in  the  well.  I'll  tell  you  who 
there  are  among  us  dancing  girls  of  special  beauty. 
There  are  said  to  be  three,  Sim  Oh-kyon,  the  Swallow, 
who  lives  in  Kang-nam  ;  Chok  Kyong-hong,  the 
Wildgoose,  who  lives  in  Ha-pook  ;  and  Kay  Som- 
wol,  Moonlight  of  Nakyang.  I  am  Moonlight,  and 
though  I  have  won  a  name  out  of  all  proportion  to 
my  merits.  Swallow  and  Wildgoose  are  truly  the 

49  D 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

greatest  beauties  living.  Why  do  you  say  that  there 
are  no  more  such  in  the  world  ?  " 

Yang  answered  :  "  My  opinion  is  that  those  two 
are  unfairly  and  unjustly  given  a  place  and  name 
equal  to  yours." 

Moonlight  replied  :  "  Ok-kyon,  Swallow,  lives 
so  far  away  from  me  that  I  have  never  met  her,  but 
all  who  have  come  from  the  south  are  unstinted  in 
their  praises.  I  am  sure  she  has  no  unfair  reputation. 
Wildgoose  I  know  and  love  like  a  sister.  I'll  tell  you 
about  her.  She  is  the  daughter  of  the  Yang  clan  of  Pa- 
joo,  who  lost  her  parents  early  in  life  and  lived  with 
her  aunt.  From  her  girlhood  days  a  rumour  went  forth 
through  all  the  north  land  of  her  beauty,  so  that 
thousands  of  golden  yang  were  offered  for  her.  Go- 
betweens  crowded  her  gateway  like  a  swarm  of  bees. 
Wildgoose  spoke  to  her  aunt  about  it,  and  had  them 
driven  away.  Said  they  to  the  aunt  :  '  Your  pretty 
niece  has  driven  us  away  and  will  consent  to  no  one. 
What  sort  of  person  does  she  desire  in  order  to  be 
satisfied  ?  Does  she  want  to  be  wife  of  a  minister,  or 
of  a  provincial  governor,  or  is  she  to  be  given  to  some 
noted  literatus  or  writer  of  renown  ?  '  " 

"  Wildgoose  replied  for  herself,  saying  :  *  If  there 
be  as  in  the  days  of  the  Chin  Kingdom  someone 
like  Sa  An-sok,  I'll  follow  him  and  be  the  companion 
of  a  minister  of  state  ;  or  if  as  in  the  days  of  the 
Three  Kingdoms  someone  like  Choo  Kong-keun, 
I'll  follow  him  and  be  the  wife  of  a  noted  governor  ; 
or  if  there  be  someone  like  Yee  Tai-baik  [15],  doctor 
of  the  Hallim,  great  in  letters,  I'll  follow  him  ;  or 
if  he  be  like  Sa  Ma-chang,  who  sang  the  phoenix 
song  in  the  days  of  Han  Moo-je  [16],  I'll  follow  him. 

50 


The  Meeting  with  Kay  See 

Where  my  heart  goes  I  will  go,  but  who  can  tell  in 
advance  where  this  shall  be  ?  ' 

"  Then  the  various  go-betweens  laughed  loudly 
and  took  their  departure.  Wildgoose  said  to  herself  : 
*  How  could  an  imprisoned  girl  from  an  obscure 
part  of  the  country  with  no  experience  of  the  world 
ever  be  expected  to  select  a  noted  lord  for  husband  ? 
But  a  dancer  like  me  is  one  who  shares  the  festal 
season  with  the  rare  and  gifted,  and  talks  to  them 
face  to  face.  She  even  opens  the  door  to  princes  and 
nobles.  She  learns  to  distinguish  the  high-born 
from  the  mediocre,  and  becomes  an  expert  in  assay- 
ing human  worth.  She  can  sense  the  bamboo  from 
the  Tai,  or  jade  ornaments  from  Namjon  ;  how 
should  she  be  anxious  about  whom  to  choose  ?  '  So 
she  yielded  herself  up  as  a  dancing-girl  in  order  that 
she  might  attach  herself  to  one  great  and  renowned, 
but  in  all  these  years  she  has  found  nothing  but  an 
empty  reputation. 

"  Last  year  the  noted  literati  from  the  twelve 
counties  of  Shantung  north  of  the  river  held  a  great 
feast  in  the  capital  and  had  dancing  and  music.  At 
this  time  Wildgoose  sang  the  Yea-sang  Kok  (The 
Rainbow  Robes  of  the  Fairy).  She  was  like  the  wild 
bird  itself  in  grace  of  motion  and  matchless  beauty. 
All  the  dancers  of  the  day  dropped  their  heads  be- 
fore her.  When  the  feast  was  over  she  went  away 
by  herself  to  the  top  of  Tong-jak  Tower,  walked 
back  and  forth  under  the  light  of  the  moon,  thinking 
over  the  writings  of  the  ancient  sages,  her  heart  full 
of  loneliness  and  sorrow,  sighing  to  herself  over  past 
events  that  had  broken  in  upon  her  fragrant  way. 
All  who  saw  her  revered  her  grace  and  gazed  with 

51 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

wonder  at  her  loveliness.  When  Wildgoose  and  I 
played  together  in  the  Sang-kok  Monastery  and 
told  our  hopes  one  to  the  other,  she  said  to  me  :  *  If 
we  two  meet  a  master  whom  we  like  let's  recommend 
each  other.  As  we  serve  the  same  husband  we  shall 
pass  our  happy  days  without  faults  or  failings.' 

"  I  agreed,  and  now  that  I  have  met  with  my 
destined  lord  I  naturally  think  of  Wildgoose,  who 
is  at  present  in  the  palace  of  the  governor  of  Shan- 
tung. Alas,  as  the  ancients  said,  there  are  many  devils 
to  interfere  with  what  is  sweet  and  good.  The  wives 
of  the  governor  are  surrounded  with  riches  and 
honour,  but  this  is  not  what  Wildgoose  wishes." 
And  Moonlight  sighed  and  added  :  "  Would  that  I 
could  meet  my  fairest  companion  and  tell  her." 

Yang  said  in  reply  :  "  There  are  many  gifted 
ones  among  the  dancers,  and  yet  why  should  a 
daughter  of  the  gentry  have  to  take  a  second  place  to 
them  ?  " 

Moonlight  answered  :  "  Among  those  I  know 
■  there  is  no  one  who  equals  Chin  See.  How  could  I 
dare  propose  a  name  to  my  lord  not  her  equal  ?  Still 
I  have  frequently  heard  the  people  of  the  capital  say 
that  there  is  no  one  like  Justice  Cheung's  daughter. 
For  beauty  of  face  and  nobility  of  heart  she  is  re- 
garded as  first  of  all.  I  have  not  seen  her  myself,  but 
there  is  no  question  that  her  name  is  well  won.  When 
my  lord  reaches  the  capital  please  think  of  this.  Seek 
her  out  if  possible,  and  learn  if  this  be  so." 

But  the  time  had  come  to  part,  and  Moonlight 
said  in  haste  :  "  You  must  not  stay  longer.  The 
various  guests  were  fiercely  angry  with  you  and  will 
be  so  still.  There  may  be  danger  ;  go  quickly,  please. 

52 


The  Meeting  with  Kay  See 

We  shall  meet  and  have  many  happy  days  together, 
why  should  I  be  sad  ?  " 

The  master  spoke  his  greetings  :  "  Your  words 
are  like  gold  and  jewels  to  me,  and  shall  be  written 
on  my  heart,"  and  in  tears  they  parted. 


53 


Chapter  IV 
In  the  Guise  of  a  Priestess 

YANG  now  made  his  way  from  Nakyang  to 
the  western  capital,  found  a  lodging-house 
and  disposed  of  his  baggage.  Learning  that 
the  day  set  for  the  examination  was  still  distant,  he 
called  the  host  and  inquired  of  him  about  his  mother's 
cousin.  He  was  told  that  she  resided  outside  the 
South  Gate.  So  he  prepared  something  in  the  way 
of  a  present  and  went  to  find  her.  She  was  now  a 
little  over  sixty  years  of  age,  was  held  in  great  re- 
spect, and  was  the  head  of  the  Taoist  sect  of  women. 
The  master  appeared  before  her  with  due  cere- 
mony and  gave  his  mother's  letter,  while  the  priestess 
inquired  about  his  health,  and  with  evident  emotion 
said :  "  It  is  twenty  years  and  more  since  your  mother 
and  I  parted,  and  now  here  is  a  young  man  of  the 
second  generation,  so  handsome  and  strong.  Surely 
time  goes  by  like  galloping  horses  or  swift  running 
water.  I  am  an  old  woman  now  and  am  tired  of  living 
in  the  noise  and  confusion  of  the  capital.  I  was  just 
on  the  point  of  going  off  to  the  hills,  where  I  could 
meet  some  sage  and  give  my  mind  to  non-earthly 
things,  but  now  I  find  in  my  sister's  letter  a  com- 
mission that  she  has  for  me,  so  I  must  stay  and  carry 
it  out  on  your  behalf." 

Yang's  appearance  was  most  attractive,  and  his 
young  countenance  like  that  of  the  gods.  The  priest- 
ess realised  that  it  would  be  very  difficult  indeed  to 
find  a  fitting  mate  for^him  from  the  homes  of  the 

54 


In  the  Guise  of  a  Priestess 

gentry.  Still  she  would  try.  "  Come  and  see  me  often 
in  your  moments  of  leisure,"  said  she, 

Yang's  answer  was  :  "  Your  humble  nephew  be- 
longs to  a  family  that  is  poor  and  unknown,  with 
only  his  aged  mother  left  to  him.  He  is  now  nearing 
twenty,  and  living  in  an  unfrequented  part  of  the 
country  had  no  chance  to  find  a  companion.  In  these 
straits,  and  with  the  question  of  food  and  clothing 
added,  he  had  to  remember  first  the  law  of  faithful- 
ness to  his  mother.  Between  fears  and  hopes  he  has 
come  to  solicit  help  from  his  excellent  aunt,  and  she 
has  so  kindly  consented  to  assist  him  that  he  is  very 
grateful  indeed.  There  are  no  words  by  which  he 
can  express  this."  He  said  good-bye  and  withdrew. 

The  time  for  the  examination  drew  gradually 
nearer,  but  now  that  a  question  of  marriage  had 
arisen,  his  desire  for  fame  and  literary  distinction 
little  by  little  declined.  A  few  days  later  he  went 
again  to  see  his  aunt. 

The  priestess  met  him  laughingly,  and  said  : 
"  There  is  a  maiden  of  whom  I  have  thought  whose 
beauty  and  intelligence  are  a  match  indeed  for  the 
young  master  ;  but  her  family  is  terribly  proud 
and  exclusive,  with  dukes  and  barons  and  ministers 
of  state  and  so  forth  in  its  train  for  generations.  I 
fear  this  family  is  quite  unapproachable.  If  you  could 
but  win  the  first  place  in  the  examination  you  might 
think  of  this  as  a  possibility.  Otherwise  I  fear  there  is 
no  hope.  My  advice  to  you  is  not  to  come  visiting 
me  so  often,  but  to  spend  your  efforts  in  the  way  of 
preparation  so  as  to  win  the  first  place  of  honour 
when  the  examination  takes  place." 

Yang  asked  :  "  To  whose  home  do  you  refer  ?  " 

55 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

"  Just  outside  the  Chong-5aing  Gate,"  said  she, 
"  is  Justice  Cheung's  house.  That  is  the  one  I  refer 
to.  Before  it  is  an  approach-way  ornamented  with 
red  arrows.  This  Justice  has  a  daughter  who  is  a 
veritable  fairy,  evidently  some  angelic  visitor  to  the 
earth." 

Yang  then  thought  of  what  Moonlight  had  told 
him,  and  said  to  himself :  "  How  is  it  that  this  girl 
is  praised  so  highly  ?  "  Then  he  asked  of  the  priestess, 
"  My  honoured  aunt,  did  you  ever  see  this  daughter 
of  Cheung  ?  " 

"  See  her  ?  Of  course  I've  seen  her,  and  she  is 
indeed  an  angel  from  heaven.  No  words  can  express 
how  wonderful  she  is." 

The  young  master  then  said  :  "I  don't  like  to 
boast,  but  I  am  sure  I  shall  win  first  place  in  the  ex- 
amination as  easily  as  drawing  my  hand  from  my 
pocket.  Don't  be  anxious  on  that  score,  please.  But 
I  have  had  one  foolish  wish  all  my  life,  and  that  is 
not  to  ask  in  marriage  one  vviiom  I  have  never  seen. 
Please,  excellent  aunt,  take  pity  on  me  and  help  me 
to  see  what  the  lady  is  like  ?  " 

The  priestess  replied  :  "  How  could  you  ever 
hope  to  see  this  daughter  of  a  high  minister  of 
state  ?  [17]  You  do  not  trust  what  I  say  ?  " 

He  replied  :  "  How  could  I  ever  doubt  your 
words  ?  But  still  we  each  have  our  own  likes  and 
dislikes.  Your  eyes  could  never  be  just  the  same  as 
mine." 

"  There  is  no  such  danger,"  said  she.  "  Even 
children  know  that  the  phoenix  and  the  unicorn  mean 
good  luck,  and  the  lowest  classes  in  the  world  under- 
stand that  the  blue  sky  and  the  bright  sun  are 

56 


In  the  Guise  of  a  Priestess 

exalted  and  glorious.  A  man  who  has  any  eyes  at 
all  would  know  that  Cha-do  was  a  beauty." 

Yang  returned  home  unsatisfied  in  heart,  and 
next  day  went  once  more,  greatly  desiring  to  obtain 
his  aunt's  definite  permission.  The  priestess  mfet 
him  and  laughingly  said  :  "  You  have  come  early 
to-day;  you  must  have  some  special  news  to  tell  me." 

Yang  smiled  and  made  reply  :  "  Only  by  seeing 
Justice  Cheung's  daughter  can  your  humble  servant 
rid  himself  of  his  doubts  and  fears.  Think  once  again, 
please,  of  my  mother's  commission  and  my  earnest 
desire,  and  tell  me  some  plan  by  which  I  can  look 
upon  her  face.  If  you  will  only  do  this  I  will  thank 
you  for  such  kind  favour  by  a  never  ending  gratitude." 

The  priestess  shook  her  head,  saying  :  "  That's 
a  very  difficult  thing  indeed."  She  thought  for  a  time 
and  then  asked  :  "  You  are  so  highly  accomplished 
otherwise,  have  you  ever  had  leisure  in  your  studies 
for  music  ?  " 

Yang  replied  :  "  Your  humble  nephew  once  met 
a  great  teacher  of  the  genii,  and  took  from  him  a 
special  course,  and  so  knows  something  of  the  Five 
Notes  and  the  Six  Accords  of  the  gamut." 

The  priestess  then  said  to  him  :  "  Justice  Cheung's 
home  is  a  very  large  one,  and  has  five  successive 
gates  of  entrance.  It  is  a  long  way  into  the  inner 
quarters,  and  the  walls  about  are  high  and  forbid- 
ding. Without  wings  to  fly,  there  is  no  possible  way 
of  entrance.  The  Justice  himself  follows  the  Books 
of  Rites  and  Poetry  carefully  and  conforms  his  house- 
hold in  every  particular  to  their  teachings,  so  that 
members  of  the  former  never  come  here  to  offer 
incense,  nor  do  they  seek  sacrifice  in  the  Buddhist 

57 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

temples.  The  Feast  of  Lanterns  [i8]  of  the  first 
moon,  and  the  celebration  on  the  Kok  River  [19]  of 
the  third  have  no  attractions  for  them.  How  could 
an  outsider  ever  expect  to  gain  entrance  to  such  a 
family  ?  I  have  thought  of  a  plan,  however,  but  do 
not  know  whether  you  would  care  to  try  it." 

Yang  replied  :  "If  it  be  a  matter  of  seeing  the 
maiden  Cheung,  I'll  go  up  to  heaven  or  down  into 
Hades  ;  I'll  carry  fire  on  my  back  or  walk  on  the 
water,  if  you  just  say  the  word." 

The  priestess  made  answer  :  "  Justice  Cheung 
is  now  advanced  in  years,  is  in  poor  health,  and  has 
little  interest  in  the  affairs  of  state.  His  chief  delight 
is  in  sight-seeing  and  in  hearing  music.  His  wife, 
Choi  See,  is  extravagantly  fond  of  the  harp,  and  the 
daughter  being  so  quick  and  intelligent  and  able  to 
grasp  the  thought  of  any  and  every  question,  has 
acquired  a  thorough  knowledge  of  the  ancient 
masters.  A  single  hearing  and  she  understands  at 
once  a  player's  excellences  or  defects.  The  mother, 
Choi  See,  likes  to  hear  something  new,  and  con- 
stantly calls  people  to  play  for  her,  keeping  her 
daughter  at  hand  to  comment  and  to  listen.  Thus 
she  deUghts  her  old  age  with  the  charm  of  music.  My 
idea  is  this,  that  since  you  understand  how  to  play, 
you  should  practise  some  special  selections  and  then 
wait  till  the  last  day  of  the  third  moon,  the  birthday 
of  No-ja.  They  always  send  a  servant  on  that  day 
from  Cheung's  house  with  candles  to  bum  in  the 
temple  here.  You  might  take  advantage  of  this  oppor- 
tunity to  dress  as  a  Taoist  priestess  and  play  so  that 
the  servant  could  hear  you,  and  the  servant  will 
assuredly  take  the  news  of  it  to  her  mistress.  The 

58 


In  the  Guise  of  a  Priestess 

lady,  when  she  learns  this,  will  unquestionably  call 
you.  In  this  way  you  might  gain  admission.  As  for 
seeing  or  not  seeing  the  daughter,  that  depends  on 
the  decrees  of  fate,  of  which  I  am  not  the  master. 
Apart  from  this  I  have  no  other  suggestion  to  offer." 
She  added  also  :  "  Your  face  is  quite  like  a  girl's, 
and  you  have  no  beard.  Priestesses,  too,  do  not  do 
up  their  hair  as  other  girls  do,  or  cover  their  ears 
with  it.  I  see  nothing  difficult  in  the  matter  of  your 
disguise." 

Yang,  greatly  delighted,  took  his  departure.  He 
counted  over  on  his  fingers  the  days  that  must  elapse 
before  the  end  of  the  month. 

Justice  Cheung,  it  seems,  had  no  other  child  but 
this  daughter.  When  she  was  born  the  mother,  Choi 
See,  half  unconscious,  saw  a  fairy  angel  come  down 
from  heaven  and  drop  a  sparkling  gem  into  the 
room  before  her.  Then  it  was  that  the  child  was 
bom.  She  was  called  Kyong-pai,  Gem-Treasure, 
and  grew  up  little  by  little,  more  and  more  beautiful, 
more  and  more  graceful,  more  and  more  gifted,  so 
that  none  from  ancient  times  was  ever  like  her.  Her 
parents  greatly  loved  her  and  sought  someone  to  be 
a  fitting  husband,  but  as  yet  none  had  been  found 
to  suit  them.  She  was  sixteen  now  and  yet  no  mar- 
riage had  been  arranged. 

On  a  certain  day  Choi  See  called  her  nurse, 
old  Chon,  and  said  :  "  To-day  is  the  anniversary 
of  the  great  teacher  No-ja.  Take  four  candles 
and  go  to  the  Taoist  temple  and  give  them  to  the 
priestess  Too-ryon.  Take  these  cloth  gifts  as  well 
and  refreshments,  and  present  them  with  my  kindest 
greetings." 

59 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Old  Chon  took  her  orders,  entered  a  little  palanquin 
and  went  to  the  temple.  The  priestess  received  the 
candles  and  lit  them  before  No-ja's  portrait.  She 
said  a  hundred  thanks  and  made  her  bow  for  the 
presents ;  treated  Chon  royally  and  sent  her  on  her 
way  rejoicing. 

Meantime,  in  the  guise  of  a  young  priestess.  Master 
Yang  had  come  into  the  temple,  tuned  his  harp  and 
had  begun  to  play.  Just  as  the  old  nurse  had  said 
good-bye  and  was  about  to  step  into  the  chair,  she 
suddenly  heard  the  sound  of  music  from  before  the 
portrait  in  the  main  hall.  Lovely  music  it  was,  clear 
and  sweet,  such  as  belongs  beyond  the  clouds. 
Chon,  ordering  the  chair  to  wait  for  a  moment, 
inclined  her  head  and  listened. 

She  turned  to  the  priestess  Too-ryon  and  said  : 
"  While  I  have  waited  on  the  lady  Cheung  I  have 
heard  sweet  music,  but  never  in  my  life  have  I 
heard  anything  like  this.  It  is  wonderful.  Who  is 
playing  ?  " 

The  priestess  replied  :  "  Recently  a  young  acolyte 
from  Cho  has  come  to  visit  me,  desiring  greatly  to 
see  the  capital.  It  is  she  who  plays.  Certainly  her 
powers  of  execution  are  wonderful,  but  I  am  not  a 
musician  myself,  and  cannot  well  distinguish  one 
part  from  the  other.  Still  I  am  sure  after  what  you 
say  that  she  must  be  very  gifted  indeed." 

Chon  said  :  "If  the  lady  Cheung  knows  of  this 
she  will  certainly  invite  her.  Ask  her  to  stay  for  a 
little,  please." 

The  priestess  replied  :  "  Very  well,  I'll  do  so." 
So  she  sent  her  on  her  way  and  then  she  told 
Master  Yang  what  old  Chon  had  said.  Yang  was 

60 


In  the  Guise  of  a  Priestess 

delighted,  and  awaited  impatiently  his  summons  to 
the  house  of  Cheung. 

On  her  return  the  old  nurse  said  to  the  lady 
Cheung  :  "  In  the  Taoist  Temple  there  is  a  young 
priestess  who  plays  the  harp  as  I  have  never  heard 
it  played  in  my  life  ;  it  is  the  most  wonderful  play- 
ing in  the  world." 

The  lady  Cheung  replied  :  "  I  wish  I  could  hear 
her."  The  following  day  she  sent  a  closed  chair  and 
a  servant  to  the  temple  bearing  a  message  to  the 
teacher  Too-ryon,  saying :  "  Even  though  the  young 
priestess  should  not  wish  to  come,  please  use  your 
kind  offices  to  have  her  visit  me." 

The  priestess  then  said  to  Yang  before  the  servant : 
"  This  high  and  noble  lady  invites  you  ;  you  must 
not  refuse  to  go." 

"  It  is  not  fitting,"  said  Yang,  "  that  one  born  of 
the  low  classes  in  a  distant  part  of  the  country  should 
go  into  the  presence  of  nobility,  and  yet  how  can  I 
refuse  to  do  what  your  ladyship  commands  ?  " 

So  he  donned  the  robe  and  hat  of  a  priestess,  took 
his  harp  and  went  forth.  Truly  he  was  as  startling 
in  appearance  and  as  sweet  as  the  ancient  favourites 
of  China.  The  servant  of  the  Cheungs  was  beside 
herself  with  joy. 

Master  Yang,  in  the  closed  chair,  safely  reached 
Cheung's.  The  servant  then  led  the  way  into  the 
inner  quarters.  The  lady  Cheung,  with  dignified  but 
kindly  countenance,  was  seated  in  the  main  hall. 

The  musician  bowed  twice  before  the  step-way, 
and  then  the  lady  ordered  her  to  be  seated,  saying  : 
"  My  servant  went  yesterday  to  the  temple  and  was 
so  fortunate  as  to  hear  the  music  of  the  gods.  She 

6i 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

returned  and  expressed  a  wish  that  I  might  hear  it 
also.  Now  indeed  I  realise  what  the  saying  means 
that  the  beautiful  presence  of  the  genii  drives  all 
worldly  thoughts  from  the  soul." 

The  young  priestess  arose  from  her  seat.  "  Your 
humble  servant,"  said  she,  "  is  from  the  land  of 
Cho,  and  is  making  a  hasty  journey  like  a  passing 
cloud.  Because  of  my  slight  attainments  in  music 
your  ladyship  has  called  me  to  play  before  you.  How 
could  I  ever  have  dreamed  of  such  an  honour  ?  " 

The  lady  Cheung  told  the  servant  to  place  the 
harp  in  order.  She  touched  it  lightly  herself,  saying  : 
"  This  is  a  beautiful  instrument  indeed." 

The  young  priestess  answered  :  "  It  is  made  of 
o-dong  wood  that  has  dried  for  a  hundred  years  on 
the  Yong-moon  mountain.  Its  fibre  is  close  knit  and 
hard  like  metal  or  marble.  It  was  a  gift  to  me  that  I 
never  could  have  purchased  with  money." 

As  they  talked  together  the  shades  of  the  after- 
noon began  to  fall  upon  the  white  stone  entry,  but 
still  there  was  no  sign  of  the  daughter. 

The  musician,  in  a  state  of  great  inward  impatience 
and  doubt,  said  to  the  lady  :  "  Though  your  servant 
knows  many  ancient  tunes  and  prefers  them  to  the 
modern,  I  play  them  only,  but  do  not  know  their 
names  or  history.  I  have  heard  the  priestess  in  the 
temple  say  that  your  excellent  daughter's  knowledge 
of  music  is  equal  to  that  of  the  famous  Sa-kwan.  I 
should  like  to  have  her  hear  and  comment  concern- 
ing my  poor  efforts." 

The  lady  then  sent  a  servant  to  call  the  daughter. 
In  a  little  the  embroidered  door  slid  open  and  a 
breath  of  sweet  fragrance  issued  forth.  The  maiden 

62 


In  the  Guise  of  a  Priestess 

came  sweetly  out  and  sat  down  beside  her  mother. 
The  musician  arose,  made  two  bows  and  slightly 
lifted  his  eyes  to  see,  and  lo,  it  was  as  when  the  first 
rays  of  the  morning  bursts  upon  one,  or  as  when 
the  fresh  bloom  of  the  lotus  shows  above  the  water. 
His  mind  was  all  in  a  daze,  his  spirit  intoxicated  so 
that  he  dared  not  look.  He  was  sitting  at  a  distance 
where  he  had  difficulty  in  seeing,  so  he  said  to  the 
lady  :  "I  should  like  to  hear  more  clearly  what  the 
young  mistress  says.  The  hall  is  so  large  and  her 
voice  so  soft  that  I  cannot  catch  the  words." 

The  lady  then  told  one  of  the  servants  to  bring 
the  priestess's  cushion  up  closer.  The  servant  did 
so  and  arranged  the  seat  just  in  front  of  the  lady 
Cheung  and  to  the  right  of  the  young  mistress,  and 
adjusted  it  so  that  they  could  not  look  straight  at 
each  other.  Yang  was  disturbed  by  this,  but  did  not 
dare  to  suggest  a  second  change.  The  servant  then 
placed  the  incense  table  in  front  and  brought  in- 
cense. Then  Yang,  the  pretended  priestess,  touched 
the  strings  of  his  harp  and  began  with  the  tune, 
"  The  Feathery  Robes  of  the  Fairy." 

The  young  lady  said  :  "Oh,  how  beautiful !  This 
is  proof  indeed  of  the  happy  world  of  Tang  Myong 
days.  The  maiden's  playing  is  beyond  human 
conception,  but,  alas,  it  is  said  of  this  tune  that  the 
0-yang  barbarian  with  the  sound  of  the  drum  came 
thundering  in,  shaking  the  earth  and  drowning  out 
the  notes  of  the  '  Feathery  Robes.'  This  is  a  tune 
associated  with  wild  war,  and  though  wonderful  in 
its  power  it  has  fearsome  associations  connected 
with  it ;  try  another,  please." 

Yang  played  again.  Then  the  young  mistress  said  : 

63 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

"  This  is  a  beautiful  tune  too,  but  it  suggests  a  wild, 
reckless  life  that  rushes  to  extremes.  King  Hoo-joo 
of  China  enjoyed  this  tune  to  the  undoing  of  his 
kingdom,  and  its  name  to-day  is  famous,  '  The 
Garden  of  Green  Gems  and  Trees.'  The  saying 
runs  :  *  Even  though  you  were  to  meet  Hoo-joo  in 
Hades  it  would  be  out  of  place  to  ask  him  about 
'  Green  Gems  and  Trees.'  This  is  a  tune  that  caused 
the  loss  of  a  kingdom,  and  is  one  not  to  be  honoured. 
Won't  you  play  another  ?  " 

Yang  played  another  tune.  Then  the  young  lady 
remarked  :  "  This  tune  is  sad,  glad,  sweet  and 
tender.  It  is  the  tune  of  Cha  Moon-heui,  who  was 
caught  in  a  war  and  carried  off  by  the  barbarian, 
Cho-cho  gave  a  fabulous  ransom  for  her  and  had 
her  brought  home.  When  she  bade  good-bye  to  her 
half -barbarian  sons  Cha  Moon-heui  wrote  this  tune. 
It  is  said, '  The  barbarians  on  hearing  it  dropped  their 
tears  upon  the  grass,  while  the  minister  from  Han  was 
melted  by  the  strains  of  it.'  It  is  a  very  beautiful 
tune,  and  yet  she  is  a  woman  who  forsook  her  virtue. 
Why  should  we  talk  of  it  ?  Try  another,  please." 

Then  Yang  played  again.  The  young  mistress  said: 
"  This  is  '  The  Distant  Barbarian,'  written  by  Wang 
So-gun  [20].  Wang  So-gun  thought  of  her  former 
king  and  longed  for  her  native  land.  She  put  into 
her  song  her  lost  country,  and  a  wail  of  sorrow  over 
the  portrait  that  was  her  undoing.  She  herself  had 
said  :  '  Who  will  write  a  tune  that  will  move  the 
hearts  of  the  people  for  a  thousand  years  as  they 
think  of  me  ? '  Still  it  is  born  of  life  with  the  bar- 
barian and  is  a  half -foreign  tune,  and  not  just  what 
we  should  call  correct.  Have  you  another  ?  " 

64 


In  Guise  of  a  Priestess 


In  the  Guise  of  a  Priestess 

Yang  then  tried  another.  Then  the  young  lady's 
expression  changed,  and  she  said  :  "  It  is  long 
since  I  heard  this  tune.  You  are  surely  not  an  in- 
habitant of  the  earth.  This  calls  up  the  history  of  a 
great  and  wonderful  man  who  had  fallen  on  evil 
days  and  had  given  up  all  thought  of  worldly  things. 
His  faithful  heart  was  bewildered  over  the  mystery 
of  life,  and  he  wrote  this  tune  called  *  The  Hill  of 
the  Wide  Tomb.'  As  he  was  beheaded  in  the  East 
market  he  looked  at  the  setting  sun  and  sang  it,  add- 
ing the  words  '  Alas,  alas,  will  anyone  ever  desire 
to  learn  it  ?  I  have  kept  it  to  myself ;  now  I  grieve 
that  there  is  no  chance  to  pass  it  on.'  You  must  indeed . 
have  met  the  spirit  of  the  Buddha  Sok-ya  to  have 
learnt  it." 

Yang,  kneeling  as  he  was,  replied  :  "  The  young 
mistress's  wisdom  is  unequalled  by  any  other  on 
earth.  I  learned  this  from  a  great  teacher,  and  his 
words  were  indeed  the  very  words  of  your  ladyship." 

He  played  still  another.  Then  Cheung  See  said  : 
"  Enough,  enough,  'tis  the  sadness  of  the  autumn. 
The  brown  hills  are  bare  and  craggy,  the  waters  of 
the  river  wide  and  far  across.  The  footprints  of  the 
fairy  are  seen  upon  the  dust  of  earth.  This  is  the 
tune  of  the  *  Water  Fairy.'  My  priestess  musician 
has  all  the  knowledge  of  a  hundred  generations." 

The  young  master  played  again,  while  the  lady 
adjusted  her  dress  and  knelt  circumspectly,  saying  : 
"  This  is  the  supreme  expression  of  all  music.  The 
Sage  alights  on  an  evil  world,  travels  through  all 
parts  of  it,  desiring  to  help  the  distressed  and  the 
needy.  If  not  Confucius,  who  ever  would  have  written 
a  song  like  this  ?  It  is  no  other  than  '  The  Fragrant 

65  E 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Orchid.'  The  thought  runs  :  *  He  travelled  through 
all  the  nine  provinces  and  found  no  place  in  which 
to  rest  his  heart.'  Is  this  not  so  ?  " 

Yang,  kneeling,  cast  more  incense  on  the  fire, 
then  played  again,  whereupon  the  young  lady  said  : 
"  Refined  and  beautiful  is  '  The  Fragrant  Orchid  '  as 
it  came  from  the  mind  of  the  great  Sage,  who 
sorrowed  over  the  world  and  desifed  to  save  it ;  but 
there  is  a  strain  of  hopelessness  in  it.  In  the  song, 
however,  all  is  bright  and  happy  like  the  opening 
buds  of  May,  free  and  gladsome  ;  there  are  no  words 
by  which  to  tell  it.  This  is  the  famous  tune  of  the 
'  Nam-hoon  Palace  of  King  Soon.'  Concerning  it,  it  is 
written : '  The  south  wind  is  warm  and  sweet  and  bears 
away  on  its  wings  the  sorrows  of  the  world.'  This  is 
lovely,and  fills  one's  heart  to  overflowing.  Even  though 
you  know  others  I  have  no  desire  to  hear  them." 

Yang  bowed  and  said  in  reply  :  "  Your  humble 
servant  has  heard  that  you  must  play  nine  before  the 
spirit  of  God  comes  down.  I  have  already  played 
eight ;  one  still  remains,  which,  with  your  kind  per- 
mission, I  will  play.  He  straightened  the  bridge  of 
the  harp,  tuned  it  once  again,  and  began. 

The  music  seemed  far  distant  at  first,  miles  away,- 
awakening  a  sense  of  delight  and  calling  the  soul  in 
a  fast  and  lively  way.  The  flowers  in  the  court  opened 
out  at  the  sound  of  it ;  the  swallows  in  pairs  swung 
through  their  delightful  dancings  ;  the  orioles  sang 
in  chorus  to  each  other.  The  young  mistress  dropped 
her  head,  closed  her  eyes,  and  sat  silent  for  a  moment 
till  the  part  was  reached  which  tells  how  the  phoenix 
came  back  to  his  native  land,  gliding  across  the  wide 
expanse  of  sea  looking  fof"  his  mate. 

66 


In  the  Guise  of  a  Priestess 

The  young  mistress  opened  her  eyes  and  looked 
once  straight  at  the  priestess.  Then  she  bent  her  head 
as  though  to  adjust  her  dress.  The  red  blushes 
mounted  to  her  cheeks  and  drove  even  the  paler 
colour  from  her  brow,  until  she  looked  like  one  who 
was  red  with  wine.  She  quietly  arose  and  went  into 
her  own  room. 

Yang  gave  a  start  of  surprise,  pushed  away  his 
harp,  got  up,  looked  straight  before  him  towards 
the  place  where  the  young  lady  had  gone.  His  spirit 
seemed  to  leave  him,  and  his  soul  to  die  away,  so 
that  he  stood  like  a  porcelain  image.  Her  ladyship 
told  him  to  be  seated,  asking  :  **  What  was  it  that 
you  played  just  now  ?  " 

Yang  replied  :  "  I  got  this  tune  from  my  teacher, 
but  do  not  know  what  its  name  is.  I  should  like  the 
young  lady  kindly  to  tell  me."  But  though  they 
waited  long  she  did  not  reappear.  The  lady  Cheung 
then  asked  the  cause  from  the  servant,  who  returned 
to  say  that  her  young  mistress  had  been  exposed  to 
the  draught  somewhat  and  was  feeling  unwell,  so 
that  she  would  not  be  able  to  rejoin  them. 

In  doubt  whether  he  had  been  discovered  or  not 
Yang  felt  uncomfortable,  and  did  not  dare  to  stay 
longer.  He  arose  and  made  a  courteous  bow  to  the 
lady  Cheung,  saying  :  "  I  am  so  sorry  to  hear  that 
the  young  mistress  is  feeling  unwell.  I  am  afraid  I 
may  have  upset  her  by  some  lack  of  good  form  on 
my  part.  Your  ladyship  will  be  anxious,  too.  May  I 
ask  leave  to  go  ?  " 

The  lady  gave  money  and  silk  by  way  of  reward, 
but  the  priestess  refused  it.  "  Though  I  know  some- 
thing of  music  I  have  studied  it  only  as  a  pastime," 

67 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

said  she,  "  and  must  not  accept  these  rich  presents." 
She  then  bowed  her  thanks,  went  down  the  stone 
steps  and  was  gone. 

The  lady  made  anxious  inquiry  about  her  daughter 
but  found  that  there  was  nothing  serious  the  matter. 

Later  Cheung  See  entered  her  mother's  room 
and  asked  of  the  servant  there  :  "  How  is  Cloudlet 
feeling  to-day  ?  " 

The  servant  replied  :  "  She  is  better.  Finding 
that  your  ladyship  was  enjoying  the  music,  she  got 
up  and  made  her  toilet." 

Now  Cloudlet's  family  name  was  Ka  and  her 
birthplace  was  So-ho.  Her  father  had  come  up  to 
the  capital,  and  was  a  secretary  in  one  of  the  offices 
of  the  ministry.  He  had  proved  himself  a  faithful 
servant  to  Chief  Justice  Cheung,  and  shortly  after 
his  death,  when  Cloudlet  was  about  thirteen  years 
of  age,  the  Justice  and  his  wife  took  pity  on  the 
orphan  and  made  her  a  member  of  their  family  and 
the  playmate  of  their  daughter.  There  was  a  differ- 
ence of  a  month  only  between  the  ages  of  the  two 
girls. 

Every  line  and  feature  of  Cloudlet's  face  was  a 
model  of  comeliness.  She  was  the  equal  of  the  young 
mistress  in  literature,  in  penmanship,  and  in  em- 
broidery, and  she  was  treated  in  every  way  like  a 
sister,  and  one  whom  the  young  lady  would  scarcely 
let  go  out  of  her  sight.  Though  there  was  the  re- 
lationship between  the  two  of  mistress  and  maid, 
they  loved  each  other  as  only  bosom  friends  do. 
Cloudlet's  name  originally  was  Cho-oon,  a  Cloud 
from  Cho,  but  her  young  mistress  was  so  in  love 
with  her  beauty  that  she  borrowed  an  expression 

68 


In  the  Guise  of  a  Priestess 

from  the  writings  of  Han  Toi-jee  which  says, 
"  Beauty  is  Uke  a  cloud  of  springtime,"  and  called 
her  instead  Choon-oon,  "  Spring  Cloud,"  and  so 
all  the  members  of  the  family  called  her  familiarly, 
Cloudlet. 

Cloudlet  inquired  of  the  young  mistress,  saying  : 
"  The  servants  were  all  excited  about  the  visitor, 
telling  me  that  the  priestess  who  played  the  harp 
was  like  a  fairy  and  that  her  execution  was  most 
wonderful.  Your  praising  her  so  made  me  anxious 
to  forget  my  little  ailments  and  get  a  glimpse  too. 
Why  has  she  left  so  suddenly  ?  " 

The  young  lady  blushed,  and  said  hesitatingly  in 
reply  :  "  Cloudlet,  my  dear,  you  know  how  I  have 
been  as  careful  of  my  behaviour  as  the  Book  of  Rites 
requires  ;  and  how  I  have  guarded  my  thoughts  as 
the  pearls  and  jewels  of  my  life  ;  that  my  feet  have 
never  ventured  outside  the  middle  gates  ;  and  that 
in  conversation  I  have  not  even  met  my  friends. 
Would  you  believe  it,  I  have  been  deceived  and  have 
had  put  upon  me  a  disgrace  that  will  never  be  wiped 
out.  How  shall  I  bear  it  or  lift  up  my  face  again  to 
the  light  of  day  ?  " 

Cloudlet  was  greatly  alarmed  and  asked  :  "  What 
do  you  mean  ?  " 

The  young  lady  replied  :  "  I  did  really  say  of  the 
priestess  who  came  just  now  that  she  was  very,  very 
beautiful,  and  her  playing  simply  marvellous."  Then 
she  hesitated  and  did  not  finish  what  she  was  about 
to  say. 

Cloudlet  made  answer  :  "  But  what  of  that  ?  " 

The  young  lady  replied  :  "  The  priestess  began 
by  playing  the  '  Feathery  Mantle,'  and  then  went 

69 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

on  playing  one  by  one,  till  she  came  to  '  King  Soon's 
Palace.'  They  were  all  in  keeping,  each  selection 
following  the  other,  so  I  asked  her  to  stop  there. 
She  said,  however,  that  she  had  one  more  that  she 
would  like  to  play.  It  was  none  other  than  the  tune 
by  which  General  Sa-ma  fascinated  the  heart  of 
Princess  Tak-moon,  the  song  of  the  phoenix  seeking 
his  mate.  I  was  in  doubt  the  minute  I  heard  this, 
and  so  looked  closely  at  her  face,  and  assuredly  it 
was  not  a  girl's  face  at  all.  Some  cunning  fellow, 
wanting  to  see  me,  has  pushed  his  way  in  here  in 
disguise.  I  am  so  sorry  for  one  thing ;  if  only  you, 
Cloudlet,  had  been  well  enough  to  have  shared  in 
this,  and  had  seen  him,  you  would  have  detected 
the  disguise  at  once.  I,  an  unmarried  girl  qf  the 
inner  quarters,  have  sat  for  two  full  hours  face  to 
face  with  a  strange  man  unblushingly  talking  to 
him.  Did  anyone  ever  hear  of  such  a  thing  in  the 
world  before  ?  I  cannot  tell  this  even  to  my  mother. 
If  I  hadn't  you  to  whom  I  could  unburden  my  heart, 
what  should  I  do  ?  " 

Cloudlet  laughed  and  said  in  reply :  "  Even 
though  you  are  an  unmarried  girl  why  shouldn't 
you  hear  the  tune  of  General  Sa-ma  looking  for  his 
mate  ?  The  young  mistress  is  mistaken  and  has  seen 
a  snake's  shadow  in  her  glass  of  wine." 

The  young  lady  replied  :  "  Not  so,  there  is  a  law 
that  governs  the  selection  of  tunes.  If  there  was  no 
meaning  in  the  search  of  the  phoenix  for  his  mate, 
why  should  it  have  been  played  last  of  all  ?  While 
there  are  those  among  women  who  are  delicate  and 
refined,  there  are  also  those  who  are  coarse  and  ugly, 
but  I  never  saw  anyone  just  like  this  person  before, 

70 


In  the  Guise  of  a  Priestess 

so  beautiful  and  yet  so  commanding.  I  have  a  con- 
viction now  that  the  examination  is  close  at  hand  and 
candidates  are  gathering,  that  some  one  among  them 
has  heard  a  false  rumour  of  me,  and  has  taken  this 
way  to  spy  out  and  see  my  face." 

Cloudlet  said  :  "  If  this  priestess  be  really  a  man, 
and  her  face  so  beautiful,  her  manner  so  free  and 
fresh,  and  her  knowledge  of  music  so  astounding, 
one  can  only  conclude  that  she  is  a  most  wonderfully 
gifted  person.  How  do  you  know  that  it  may  not  be 
General  Sa-ma  himself  ?  " 

The  lady  replied  :  "  Even  though  it  be  Sa-ma 
Sang-yo  I  certainly  am  not  Princess  Tak-moon." 

"  But,"  said  Cloudlet,  "  your  ladyship  must  not 
talk  nonsense.  Princess  Tak-moon  was  a  widow 
and  you  are  an  unmarried  girl.  Princess  Tak-moon 
followed  her  lord  intentionally.  You  have  heard  it 
without  being  responsible  in  any  way,  or  being 
influenced.  How  can  you  compare  yourself  with 
Tak-moon  Koon  ?  " 

So  the  two  laughed  and  talked  together  for  the 
rest  of  the  day. 

Some  time  later,  when  the  young  lady  was  seated 
with  her  mother,  Justice  Cheung  came  into  the  room 
with  the  announcement  of  the  successful  candidates. 
He  gave  it  to  his  wife,  saying  :  "  We  have  not  yet 
made  arrangements  for  the  marriage  of  our  daughter, 
and  I  had  intended  to  make  a  selection  from  this 
company  of  successful  scholars.  However,  I  find 
that  the  winner  is  not  of  the  capital,  but  is  a  certain 
Yang  So-yoo  from  Hoi-nam.  His  age  is  eighteen, 
and  every  one  is  loud  in  his  praises,  saying  that  he 
has  ability  of  the  first  order.  I  hear  also  that  he  is 

71 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

remarkably  handsome,  with  commanding  presence 
for  so  young  a  man,  altogether  a  person  who  has 
before  him  a  great  career.  They  say  he  is  not  yet 
married.  I  should  think  he  would  be  a  very  suitable 
person  for  a  son-in-law." 

The  lady  replied  :  "  To  hear  of  him  is  one  thing  ; 
to  see  him  may  be  quite  another.  Even  though  others 
praise  him  you  cannot  trust  to  that.  After  you  have 
seen  and  met  him,  let  us  talk  the  matter  over." 

The  Justice  replied  :  "  That's  a  very  easy  thing." 


72 


Chapter  V 
Among  the  Fairies 

WHEN  the  daughter  heard  what  her  father 
had  to  say,  she  hurried  into  her  room  and 
said  to  Cloudlet :  "  The  priestess  who 
came  here  to  play  the  harp  was  from  Cho  ;  her  age 
was  eighteen  or  thereabouts.  Now  Hoi-nam  is  the 
same  as  Cho,  and  the  age  corresponds.  I  have  more 
suspicion  than  ever  of  this  priestess.  If  the  winner 
is  the  same  as  she,  he  will  undoubtedly  come  to  see 
my  father.  Now  I  want  you  to  take  note  of  his 
coming  and  obtain  a  careful  view  of  him." 

Cloudlet  replied  :  "  I  did  not  see  the  other  person 
who  came,  and  so  even  though  I  see  this  one  face  to 
face  how  should  I  recognise  him  ?  I  think  it  would 
be  much  better  if  your  ladyship  would  peep  through 
a  chink  and  see  him  for  yourself."  Thus  they  laughed 
and  talked  together. 

Yang  So-yoo  had  passed  both  the  Hoi  [21]  and 
the  Chon  examinations,  winning  the  highest  place 
of  all.  He  was  recorded  a  hallim  [22],  a  master  of 
literary  rank,  and  his  name  shook  the  city.  All  the 
nobility  and  the  peers  who  had  marriageable 
daughters  strove  together  in  their  applications 
through  go-betweens,  but  Yang  declined  them  all. 
He  went  instead  to  Secretary  Kwon  of  the  Board 
of  Education,  and  made  proposals  of  marriage 
with  the  house  of  Justice  Cheung,  asking  a  letter 
of  introduction.    This  the  secretary  readily  gave. 

73 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Yang  received  it,  placed  it  in  his  sleeve,  and  went 
at  once  to  Justice  Cheung's  and  sent  in  his  card. 

Cheung,  seeing  that  it  was  the  card  of  the  winner, 
said  to  his  wife  :  "  The  champion  of  the  kwago  has 
come  to  see  us." 

He  was  at  once  shown  into  the  guest-room.  His 
head  was  crowned  with  the  victor's  wreath  of  flowers. 
Government  musicians  followed  in  his  train,  sing- 
ing his  praises. 

He  bowed  to  the  Justice  and  made  his  salutation. 
Exceedingly  handsome,  modest  and  respectful  in 
his  manner,  he  so  impressed  the  Justice  that  he  looked 
on  with  open-mouthed  wonder.  The  whole  house, 
with  the  exception  of  the  daughter,  was  in  a  state  of 
excitement,  anxious  to  catch  a  glimpse  of  him. 

Cloudlet  inquired  of  one  of  the  lady's  attendants  : 
"  I  understand  from  the  conversation  of  the  master 
and  mistress  that  the  priestess  who  came  the  other 
day  and  played  the  harp  is  a  cousin  of  the  gentle- 
man who  has  won  the  honours.  Do  you  see  any 
marks  of  resemblance  ?  " 

The  attendant  caught  at  the  suggestion  at  once, 
saying  :  "  Really  now  that  must  be  true.  They  re- 
semble each  other  wonderfully  in  looks  and  manner. 
However  could  two  cousins  be  as  much  alike  as  they  ?" 

At  this  Cloudlet  hurried  to  the  apartment  of  the 
young  lady  and  said  :  "  There  is  no  mistake,  your 
ladyship  is  correct." 

The  young  mistress  replied  :  "Go  again  and 
hear  what  he  says  and  come  and  tell  me." 

Cloudlet  went,  and  after  a  long  time  returned  to 
say  :  "On  our  master's  proposing  marriage,  the 
winner  Yang  bowed  very  low,  and   said  :    '  Your 

74 


Among  the  Fairies 

humble  servant  has  heard  many  reports  of  your 
daughter's  excellence,  of  how  gifted  and  beautiful 
she  is,  and  so  boldly  and  presumptuously  had  set 
his  hopes  high  upon  her.  For  this  reason  I  went  this 
morning  to  Secretary  Kwon  and  asked  a  letter  of 
introduction,  which  he  wrote  and  kindly  gave  me. 
Now,  however,  since  I  see  how  far  inferior  my  family 
is  to  yours,  I  find  we  should  be  ill-mated  like  bright 
clouds  and  muddy  water,  or  like  the  phoenix  with  a 
common  crow  bird.  Such  being  the  case  I  had  not 
thought  of  presenting  the  introduction,  which  is 
still  in  my  sleeve  pocket,  too  ashamed  and  afraid 
was  I.' 

"  He  then  gave  it  to  the  Justice,  who,  after  read- 
ing it  with  a  very  agreeable  countenance,  ordered 
wine  and  refreshments  to  be  brought." 

The  young  lady  gave  a  start  of  alarm,  saying  : 
**  No  one  ought  ever  to  decide  marriage  in  this  light 
and  hasty  way.  Why  has  my  father  made  such  a 
reckless  decision  ?  " 

Before  she  had  finished  speaking  a  servant  came 
to  call  her  to  her  mother. 

She  went  at  once  and  the  mother  said  to  her  : 
"  Yang  So-yoo  is  the  winner  of  the  examination, 
and  his  praises  are  in  everyone's  mouth.  Your  father 
has  just  decided  on  his  marriage  with  you,  so  we 
two  old  folks  will  have  a  place  of  support  and  will 
no  longer  be  anxious  or  troubled." 

The  daughter  replied  :  "  I  have  just  learned  from 
the  servant  that  Master  Yang's  face  is  like  that  of 
the  priestess  who  came  the  other  day  to  play  the 
harp.  Is  that  so  ?  " 

The  mother  said  :    "  The  servant  is  quite  right 

75 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

about  that.  The  priestess  musician  was  like  a  very 
goddess,  and  I  quite  fell  in  love  with  her  beauty. 
Her  looks  have  been  constantly  in  my  mind  so  that 
I  wished  to  call  her  again  just  to  see  her,  but  I  have 
not  had  the  opportunity.  Now  that  I  see  Master  Yang 
he  is  indeed  the  very  image  of  the  priestess.  You  will 
know  by  that  how  wonderfully  handsome  he  is." 

The  daughter  replied  :  "  Master  Yang  is  very 
handsome  I  know,  but  I  dislike  him  and  so  am 
opposed  to  the  marriage." 

"  Really,"  exclaimed  the  mother,  "  this  is  a  start- 
ling thing  to  say.  You  have  been  brought  up  within 
our  women's  enclosure,  while  Master  Yang  has 
lived  in  Hoi-nam.  You  have  had  no  conceivable  way 
of  knowing  each  other — ^what  possible  dislike  can 
you  have  for  him  ?  " 

The  daughter  replied  :  "  I  am  very  much  ashamed 
to  say  why,  or  to  speak  of  it,  and  so  I  have  not  told 
you  before,  but  the  priestess  who  came  to  play  the 
harp  the  other  day  is  none  other  than  the  famous 
Master  Yang.  Disguised  as  a  Taoist  acolyte  he  found 
his  way  in  here  and  played  in  order  to  see  me.  I  was 
completely  taken  in  by  his  cunning  ruse,  and  so  sat 
two  full  hours  face  to  face  with  him.  How  can  you 
possibly  say  that  I  have  no  reason  to  dislike  him  ?  " 

The  mother  felt  a  sudden  shock  of  surprise  that 
rendered  her  speechless. 

In  the  meantime  Justice  Cheung  had  dismissed 
Yang,  and  now  came  into  the  inner  quarters.  Delight 
and  satisfaction  were  written  over  his  broad  coun- 
tenance. He  said  to  his  daughter  :  "  Kyong-pai, 
Jewel,  you  have  truly  mounted  the  dragon  in  a  way 
that's  wonderful." 

76 


Among  the  Fairies 

But  the  mother  told  Justice  Cheung  what  her 
daughter  had  said,  and  then  the  Justice  himself  made 
fresh  inquiry.  When  he  learned  that  Master  Yang  had 
played  the  Phoenix  Tune  in  her  presence  he  gave  a 
great  laugh,  saying:  "Well,  Yang  is  indeed  a 
wonder  !  In  olden  times  Wang  Yoo-hak  dressed  as  a 
musician  and  played  the  flute  in  Princess  Peace's 
Palace,  and  later  became  the  winner  of  the  kwago 
(examination).  This  is  a  story  handed  down,  famous 
till  to-day.  Master  Yang,  too,  in  order  to  win  his 
pretty  bride,  dressed  as  a  woman.  It  would  prove  him 
to  be  a  very  bright  fellow.  For  a  joke  of  this  kind  why 
should  you  say  you  dislike  him  ?  On  the  other  hand, 
you  saw  only  a  Taoist  priestess  ;  you  did  not  see 
Master  Yang  at  all.  You  are  not  responsible  for  the 
fact  that  he  made  a  very  pretty  girl  musician,  and 
your  part  is  not  to  be  compared  with  that  of  Princess 
Tak-moon  who  peeped  through  the  hanging  shades. 
What  reason  have  you  to  harbour  dislikes  ?  " 

The  daughter  said  :  "I  have  nothing  to  be 
ashamed  of  in  my  heart,  but  to  allow  myself  to  be 
taken  in  thus  makes  me  so  angry  I  could  almost  die." 

The  Justice  laughed  again  :  "  This  is  not  a  matter 
for  your  old  father  to  know  anything  about.  Later  on 
you  can  question  Yang  about  it  yourself." 

The  lady  Cheung  asked  :  "  What  time  have  you 
fixed  for  the  wedding  ?  " 

The  Justice  answered  :  "  The  gifts  are  to  be 
sent  at  once,  but  we  must  wait  till  autumn  for  the 
wedding  ceremony,  so  as  to  have  his  mother  present. 
After  she  comes  we  can  decide  the  day." 

"  Since  matters  stand  thus,"  said  the  mother, 
"  there  is  no  hurry  as  to  the  exact  time."  So  they 

77 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

chose  a  day,  received  the  gifts,  and  invited  Yang  to 
their  home.  They  had  him  Uve  in  a  special  paviUon 
in  the  park.  He  fulfilled  all  the  respectful  require- 
ments of  a  son-in-law,  served  them  well,  and  they 
loved  him  as  their  very  own. 

On  a  certain  day  Cheung  See,  while  passing 
Cloudlet's  room,  saw  that  she  was  embroidering  a  pair 
of  shoes,  but  fanned  to  sleep  by  the  soft  days  of  eariy 
summer,  she  had  placed  her  embroidery  frame  for  her 
pillow  and  was  deep  in  dreamland.  The  young  mistress 
went  quietly  in  to  admire  the  beautiful  work.  She 
sighed  over  its  matchless  stitches,  and  as  she  thought 
of  the  loving  hands  that  worked  them,  she  noticed  a 
sheet  of  paper  with  writing  on  it  lying  under  the 
frame.  She  opened  it  and  read  a  verse  or  two  written 
as  a  tribute  to  her  shoes.  It  read  : 

"  Pretty  shoes,  you've  won  the  rarest  gem  for  mate, 
Step  by  step  you  must  attend  her  all  the  way. 
Except  when  lights  are  out,  and  silence  holds  the 

silken  chamber  ; 
Then  you'll  be  left  beneath  the  ivory  couch  for- 
gotten." 

The  lady  read  this  through,  and  said  to  herself : 
"  No  hand  can  write  like  Cloudlet's.  It  grows  more 
and  more  skilful.  The  embroidered  shoes  she  makes 
herself,  and  the  rare  gem  is  me,  dear  girl.  Till  now 
she  and  I  have  never  been  separated.  By  and  by  when 
I  marry  she  speaks  of  being  pushed  aside.  She  loves 
me  truly."  Then  she  sighed  and  said  :  "  She  would 
like  to  share  the  same  home  and  the  same  husband. 
Evidently  this  is  the  wish  of  her  heart." 

Fearing  to  disturb  her  in  her  happy  dreams  Cheung 

78 


Among  the  Fairies 

See  softly  withdrew  and  went  into  her  mother's 
room.  There  her  mother  was  busy  with  the  servants, 
overseeing  meals  for  the  young  master.  Jewel  said  : 
"  Since  Master  Yang  came  here  to  live,  you,  mother, 
have  had  much  anxiety  on  his  behalf,  seeing  to  bis 
clothes  and  his  food  and  the  directing  of  his  servants. 
I  am  afraid  that  you  are  worn  out.  These  are  duties 
that  rightly  fall  to  me.  Not  only  should  I  dislike  to  do 
them,  however,  but  there  is  no  precedent  or  warrant 
in  the  law  of  ceremony  for  a  betrothed  girl  to  serve 
her  master.  Cloudlet,  however,  is  experienced  in  all 
kinds  of  work.  I  should  like  if  you  would  appoint  her 
to  the  guest  chamber  in  the  park,  and  have  her  see  to 
what  pertains  to  Master  Yang.  It  would  lessen  at 
least  some  of  your  many  responsibilities." 

The  mother  replied  :  "  Cloudlet  with  her  marked 
ability  and  her  wonderful  attractiveness  can  do  any- 
thing well,  but  Cloudlet's  father  was  our  most  faithful 
attendant,  and  she  herself  is  superior  to  the  ordinary 
maid.  For  this  reason,  your  father,  who  thinks  so 
much  of  her,  desires  a  special  choice  of  husband  and 
that  she  may  have  her  own  home.  Is  not  this  the 
plan  ?  " 

The  daughter  replied  :  "  Her  wish,  I  find,  is  to  be 
with  me  always  and  never  to  leave." 

"  But  when  you  are  married,"  said  the  mother, 
"  she  could  not  go  with  you  as  an  ordinary  servant. 
Her  station  and  attainments  are  far  superior  to  that. 
The  only  way  open  to  you  in  accord  with  ancient 
rites  would  be  to  have  her  attend  as  the  master's 
secondary  wife." 

The  daughter  answered  :  "  Master  Yang  is  now 
eighteen,  a  scholar  of  daring  spirit  who  even  ventured 

79 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

into  the  inner  quarters  of  a  minister's  home  and  made 
sport  of  his  unmarried  daughter.  How  can  you  expect 
such  a  man  to  be  satisfied  with  only  one  wife  ?  Later, 
when  he  becomes  a  minister  of  state  and  gets  ten 
thousand  bales  of  rice  as  salary,  how  many  Cloudlets 
will  he  not  have  to  bear  him  company  ?  " 

At  this  point  Justice  Cheung  came  in,  and  his  wife 
said  :  "  This  girl  wants  Cloudlet  to  be  given  to  the 
young  master  to  care  for  him,  but  I  think  otherwise. 
To  appoint  a  secondary  wife  before  the  first  marriage 
takes  place  is  something  I  am  quite  opposed  to." 

The  Justice  answered  :  "  Cloudlet  is  equal  to  our 
daughter  in  ability  and  also  in  beauty  of  face.  Their 
love  for  each  other  is  so  great  that  they  will  have  to  be 
together  always  and  must  never  be  parted.  They  are 
destined  for  the  same  home,  so  to  send  Cloudlet  ahead 
will  really  make  no  difference.  Even  a  young  man 
devoid  of  love  for  women,  being  thus  alone,  would 
find  but  poor  companionship  in  his  solitary  candle, 
how  much  more  one  so  full  of  life  as  Yang  !  To  send 
her  at  once  and  have  her  see  that  he  is  well  looked 
after  would  be  very  good  indeed  ;  and  yet  to  do  so 
before  the  first  ceremony  comes  off  would  seem 
somewhat  incongruous.  Might  it  not  cause  complica- 
tions for  his  first  wedding  ?  What  do  you  think  ?  " 

The  daughter  replied  :  "  I  have  a  plan,  however, 
by  means  of  which  Cloudlet  may  wipe'  out  the  dis- 
grace that  I  have  suffered." 

The  Justice  asked  :  "What  plan,  pray?  Come,  tell 
me  about  it." 

"  With  the  help  of  my  cousin,"  said  the  daughter, 
"  I  wish  to  carry  out  a  little  plan  that  will  rid  me  of  my 
mortification  over  what  he  has  done  to  me." 

80 


Among  the  Fairies 

The  Justice  laughed  unrestrainedly.  "  That  is  a 
plan,"  said  he. 

Among  the  many  nephews  of  the  Justice  was  one 
known  familiarly  as  Thirteen,  a  fine  young  fellow, 
with  honest  heart  and  clear  head,  jolly  and  full  of  fun. 
He  had  become  a  special  friend  of  the  young  master 
and  was  most  intimate  with  him. 

The  daughter  returned  to  her  own  room  and  said 
to  Cloudlet :  "  Cloudlet,  I  have  been  with  you  ever 
since  the  hair  grew  on  our  brows  together.  We  have 
always  loved  each  other  since  the  days  when  we 
fought  with  flower  buds.  Now  I  have  had  my  wedding 
gifts  sent  to  me,  and  you  too  are  of  a  marriageable 
age.  You  have  no  doubt  thought  of  being  married.  I 
wonder  who  you  have  thought  of  for  a  husband  ?  " 

Cloudlet  replied  :  "  I  have  been  specially  loved  by 
you,  my  dearest  mistress,  and  you  have  always  been 
partial  to  me.  Never  can  I  repay  a  thousandth  part  of 
what  you  have  done.  If  I  could  but  hold  your  dressing 
mirror  for  you  for  ever  I  should  be  satisfied." 

"  I  have  always  known  your  faithful  heart,"  said 
Jewel, "  and  now  I  want  to  propose  something  to  you. 
You  know  that  Master  Yang  made  a  ninny  of  me 
when  he  played  the  harp  in  our  inner  compound.  I 
am  put  to  confusion  by  it  for  ever.  Only  by  you, 
Cloudlet,  can  I  ever  hope  to  wipe  out  the  disgrace. 
Now  I  must  tell  you  ;  we  have  a  summer  pavilion,  you 
know,  in  a  secluded  part  of  South  Mountain  not  far 
from  the  capital.  Its  surroundings  and  views  are 
beautiful,  like  a  world  of  the  fairies.  We  could  prepare 
a  marriage  chamber  there,  and  get  my  cousin  Thirteen 
to  lead  Master  Yang  into  the  mystery  of  it.  If  we  do 
this  he  will  never  again  attempt  a  disguise  or  to 

8l  F 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

deceive  anyone  with  his  harp  ;  and  I  shall  have 
wiped  out  the  memory  of  those  hours  that  we  sat  face 
to  face.  I  am  only  desirous  that  you,  Cloudlet,  will  not 
mind  taking  your  part  in  it." 

Cloudlet  said  in  reply  :  "  How  could  I  think  of 
crossing  your  dear  wishes,  and  yet  on  the  other  hand 
how  could  I  ever  again  dare  to  look  Master  Yang  in 
theiace  ?  " 

The  young  mistress  made  answer  :  "  One  who  has 
played  a  joke  upon  another  never  feels  as  bad  when 
put  to  shame  as  one  who  has  simply  had  the  joke  put 
upon  him." 

Cloudlet  laughed  and  said  :  "  Well  then,  even 
though  I  die  I'll  go  through  with  it  and  do  just  as 
you  say." 

In  spite  of  Master  Yang's  turn  in  office  with  the 
business  it  involved,  he  had  abundant  leisure  and 
many  days  free.  He  would  then  pay  visits  to  friends 
or  have  a  time  of  amusement  in  some  summer  pavilion 
or  go  for  jaunts  on  his  donkey  to  see  the  willows  in 
bloom.  On  a  certain  day  his  friend  Thirteen  said  to 
him  :  "  There  is  a  quiet  spot  in  the  hills  to  the  south 
of  the  city  where  the  view  is  unsurpassed ;  let's  go 
there,  brother,  you  and  I,  to  satisfy  our  longings  for 
the  beautiful." 

Master  Yang  replied  :  "  Happy  thought !  That's 
just  what  I  should  like  to  do." 

Then  they  made  ready  refreshments,  dispwised 
with  their  servants  as  far  as  possible,  and  went  three 
or  four  miles  into  the  hills  where  the  green  grass 
clothed  the  mountain  sides  and  the  forest  trees  bent 
over  the  rippling  water.  The  lovely  views  of  hill  and 
valley  calmed  all  thoughts  of  the  dusty  world. 

83 


Among  the  Fairies 

Master  Yang  and  Thirteen  sat  on  the  bank  of  the 
stream  and  sang  songs  together,  for  the  time  was  the 
opening  days  of  summer.  Flowers  were  all  about 
them  in  abundance,  adding  to  each  other's  beauty. 
Suddenly  a  bud  came  floating  down  the  stream.  The 
master  saw  it  and  repeated  the  lines  : 

•'  Spring  is  dear,  fairy  buds  upon  the  water 
Now  appear, 
Saying '  Garden  of  the  fairies,  here  !  '  " 

"  This  river  comes  from  Cha-gak  Peak,"  remarked 
Thirteen.  "  I  have  heard  it  said  that  at  the  time  the 
flowers  bloom  and  when  the  moon  is  bright  you  can 
hear  the  music  of  the  fairies  among  the  clouds,  but 
my  affinities  in  the  fairy  world  are  all  lacking,  so  that 
I  have  never  found  myself  among  them.  To-day  with 
my  honoured  brother  I  would  like  just  once  to  set 
foot  in  the  city  where  they  live,  see  their  wing  prints, 
and  peep  in  at  the  windows  on  these  angel  dwellers." 

The  young  master,  being  by  nature  a  lover  of  the 
wonderful,  heard  this  with  delight,  saying :  "  If 
there  are  no  fairies  of  course  there  are  none,  but  if 
there  are,  surely  they  will  be  here.  Let  us  put  our 
dress  in  order  and  go  to  see  if  we  can  find  them." 

Just  at  this  moment  a  servant  from  Thirteen's 
home,  all  wet  with  perspiration  and  panting  for 
breath,  came  to  say :  "  The  master's  lady  has  been 
suddenly  taken  ill  and  I  have  come  to  call  you." 

Then  Thirteen  reluctantly  arose  and  said  :  "I 
wanted  so  much  to  go  with  you  into  the  region  of  the 
g^i  and  enjoy  ourselves,  but  my  wife  is  ill,  and  so 
my  chance  for  meeting  the  fairies  is  ended.  It  is  only 

83 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

another  proof  of  what  I  said,  that  I  have  no  aflSnity 
with  fairies."  He  then  mounted  his  donkey  and  rode 
hurriedly  away. 

Master  Yang  was  thtis  left  alone.  He  was  not 
yet  satisfied  with  what  he  had  seen.  He  followed 
up  the  stream  into  the  enclosing  hills.  The  babbling 
waters  were  clear  and  bright  and  the  green  peaks 
encircled  him  solemnly  about.  No  dust  was  there 
here  of  the  common  world.  His  mind  was  exalted  and 
refreshed  by  the  majesty  of  it  as  he  stood  alone  on  the 
bank  of  the  stream  or  walked  slowly  on. 

Just  then  there  came  floating  by  on  the  water  a  leaf 
of  the  cinnamon  tree  with  a  couplet  of  verse  written 
on  it.  He  had  his  serving-boy  fish  it  out  and  bring  it 
to  him.    The  writing  said  : 

"  The  fairy's  woolly  dog  barks  from  amid  the 
clouds, 
For  he  knows  that  Master  Yang  is  on  the  way." 

Greatly  astonished,  he  said :  "  How  could  there  by 
any  possibiUty  be  people  living  on  these  mountains, 
and  why  should  any  living  person  ever  write  such  a 
thing  as  this  ?  "So  he  pushed  aside  the  Creeping  vines 
and  made  his  impatient  way  over  rocks  and  stones. 

His  boy  said  to  him :  "  The  day  is  late,  sir,  and  the 
road  precipitous.  There  is  no  place  ahead  at  which  to 
put  up  for  the  night ;  please  let  us  go  back  to  the 
city." 

The  master,  however,  paid  no  attention  but 
pushed  on  for  another  ten  or  eight  li,  till  the  rising 
moon  was  seen  over  the  sky-Une  of  the  eastern  hills. 
By  its  light  he  followed  his  way  through  the  shadows 

84 


Among  the  Fairies 

of  the  trees  and  crossed  the  stream.  The  frightened 
birds  uttered  cries  of  alarm,  and  monkeys  and  other 
eerie  night  creatures  voiced  their  fears.  The  stars 
seemed  to  rock  back  and  forth  over  the  wavy  tips  of 
the  tree-tops,  and  the  dewdrops  gathered  on  all  the 
needles  of  the  pine.  He  realised  that  deep  night  had 
fallen  and  that  no  trace  of  human  habitation  was  any- 
where to  be  seen.  Neither  was  there  any  place  of 
shelter.  He  thought  that  perhaps  a  Buddhist  temple 
might  be  nigh  at  hand  or  a  nunnery,  but  there  was 
none.  Just  at  the  moment  of  his  deepest  bewilder- 
ment he  suddenly  saw  a  maiden  of  sixteen  or  so 
dressed  in  fairy  green,  washing  something  by  the 
side  of  the  stream. 

Being  alarmed  by  the  stranger  she  arose  quickly  and 
called  out :  "  My  lady,  the  Master  is  coming." 

Yang  hearing  this  was  beside  himself  with  astonish- 
ment. He  went  on  a  few  steps  farther  but  the  way 
seemed  blocked  before  him,  till  unexpectedly  he  saw  a 
small  pavilion  standing  directly  by  the  side  of  the 
stream,  deeply  secluded,  hidden  away  in  the  recesses 
of  the  hills — just  such  a  place  as  fairies  were  wont  to 
choose  to  live  in. 

A  lady  dressed  in  red  then  appeared  in  the  moon- 
light, standing  alone  below  a  peach  tree.  She  bowed 
gracefully,  saying  :  "  Why  has  the  Master  been  so 
long  in  coming  ?  " 

So-yoo  in  fear  and  wonder  looked  carefully  at  her 
and  saw  that  the  lady  was  dressed  in  a  red  outer  coat 
with  a  jade  hairpin  through  her  hair,  an  ornamented 
belt  about  her  waist,  and  a  phcenix-tail  fan  in  her 
hand.  She  was  beautiful  seemingly  beyond  all  human 
realisation.  In  deepest  reverence  he  made  obeisance, 

85 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

saying  :  "  Your  humble  servant  is  only  a  common 
dweller  of  the  earth,  and  never  before  in  all  his  life  had 
a  moonlight  meeting  like  this.  Why  do  you  say  that 
I  have  been  late  in  coming  ?  " 

The  maiden  then  ascended  the  steps  of  the  pavilion 
and  invited  him  to  follow.  Awe-struck,  he  obeyed  her, 
and  when  they  had  seated  themselves,  each  on  a 
separate  mat,  she  called  to  her  maid,  saying  :  "  The 
Master  has  come  a  long  way  ;  I  am  sure  he  is  hungry  ; 
bring  tea  and  refreshments." 

The  servant  withdrew  and  in  a  little  while  brought 
in  a  jewelled  table,  dishes  and  cups.  Into  a  blue 
crystal  cup  she  poured  the  red  wine  of  the  fairies,  the 
taste  of  which  was  sweet  and  refreshing,  while  the 
aroma  from  it  filled  the  room.  One  glass,  and  he  was 
alive  with  exhilaration.  Said  he  :  "  Even  though  this 
moimtain  is  isolated  it  is  under  heaven.  Why  is  it 
that  my  fairy  ladyship  has  left  the  Lake  of  Gems  and 
her  companions  of  the  crystal  city  and  come  down  to 
dwell  in  such  a  humble  place  as  this  ?  " 

The  fairy  gave  a  long  sigh  of  regret,  saying  :  "  If  I 
were  to  tell  you  of  the  past  only  sorrow  would  result 
from  it.  I  am  one  of  the  waiting  maids  of  the  Western 
Queen  Mother  [23]  and  your  lordship  is  an  officer  of 
the  Red  Palace  where  God  dwells.  Once  when  God 
had  prepared  a  banquet  in  honour  of  the  Western 
Mother,  and  there  were  many  officers  of  the  genii 
present,  your  lordship  thoughtlessly  singled  me  out, 
and  tossed  me  some  fruit  of  the  fairies  in  a  playful 
way.  For  this  you  were  severely  punished  and  driven 
through  transmigration  into  this  world  of  woe.  I, 
fortunately,  was  more  lightly  dealt  with  and  simply 
sent  into  exile,  so  here  I  am.  Since  my  lord  has  found 

86 


Among  the  Fairies 

his  place  among  men  and  has  been  blinded  by  the 
dust  of  mortality,  he  has  forgotten  all  about  his  past 
existence,  but  my  exile  is  nearly  over  and  I  am  to 
return  again  to  the  Lake  of  Gems.  Before  going  I 
wanted  just  once  to  see  you  and  renew  the  love  of  the 
past,  so  I  asked  for  an  extension  of  my  term,  knowing 
that  you  would  come.  I  have  waited  long,  however. 
At  last,  through  much  trouble,  you  have  come  to  me 
and  we  can  unite  again  the  love  that  was  lost." 

But  scarcely  had  they  had  a  chance  to  express  their 
love  or  recall  the  awakened  secrets  of  the  past,  when 
the  birds  of  the  mountains  began  to  twitter  in  the 
branches  of  the  trees,  and  the  silken  blinds  to  lighten. 
The  fairy  said  to  the  Master  :  "  I  must  not  detain  you 
longer.  To-day  is  my  appointed  time  of  return  to 
heaven.  When  the  officer  of  the  genii,  at  the  command 
of  God,  comes  with  flags  and  banners  to  meet  me,  if 
he  should  find  you  here  we  should  be  accounted 
guilty.  Please  make  haste  and  escape.  If  you  are  true 
to  your  first  love  we  shall  have  opportunities  to  meet 
again."  Then  she  wrote  for  him  a  farewell  verse  on  a 
piece  of  silk  which  ran  thus  : 

"  Since  we  have  met,  all  heaven  is  filled  with 

flowers, 
Now  that  we  part,  each  bud  is  fallen  to  earth 

again. 
The  joys  of  spring  are  but  a  passing  dream, 
"Wide  waters  block  the  way  far  as  infinity." 

When  the  Master  had  read  this  he  was  overcome 
with  regret  at  the  thought  of  their  parting,  so  he  tore 
off  a  piece  of  his  silken  sleeve  and  wrote  a  verse  which 
ran  : 

87 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

"  The  winds  of  heaven  blow  through  the  green 

stone  flute, 
Wide-winged  the  white  clouds  lift  and  sail  away. 
Another  night  shall  mark  our  gladful  meeting, 
E'en  though  wild  rains  should  block  our  destined 

way." 

The  maiden  received  it,  and  said  :  "  The  moon  has 
set  behind  the  Tree  of  Gems ;  hasten  away  !  On  all  my 
flight  to  heaven  I  shall  have  this  verse  by  which  to 
see  your  face."  So  she  placed  it  in  the  folds  of  her  robe 
and  then  urgently  pressed  him :  "  The  time  is  passing, 
Master,  please  make  haste." 

The  Master  raised  his  hands,  said  his  regretful 
good-bye  and  was  gone.  He  had  scarcely  passed 
beyond  the  shadowed  circle  of  the  grove  when  he 
looked  back,  but  there  was  only  the  green  of  the 
mountains  that  seemed  piled  one  upon  the  other  till 
they  touched  the  white  clouds  in  companies.  He 
realised  then  that  he  had  had  a  dream  of  the  Lake  of 
Gems  and  thus  he  came  back  home. 

But  his  mind  was  all  confused  and  his  heart  had 
lost  its  joy.  He  sat  alone  thinking  to  himself  :  "  Even 
though  the  fairy  did  tell  me  that  the  time  had  come 
for  her  return  from  exile,  how  could  she  tell  the  very 
moment,  or  that  it  was  to-day  ?  If  I  had  only  waited 
a  little  or  hidden  myself  in  some  secluded  comer  and 
seen  the  fairies  and  their  meeting,  I  would  have  come 
back  home  in  triumph.  Why  did  I  make  this  fatal 
blunder  and  come  away  so  quickly  ? "  So  he  expressed 
his  regrets  over  and  over  as  he  failed  to  sleep  the  night 
through.  With  these  vain  thoughts  upon  him  he 
greeted  the  dawn,  arose,  took  his  servant,  and  went 

88 


5- /if       '**^i:- 


^f 


The  Poem  by  the  Way :  Among  the  Fairies 


Among  the  Fairies 

once  more  to  where  he  had  met  the  fairy.  The  plum 
blossoms  seemed  to  mock  him  and  the  passing  stream 
to  babble  in  confusion.  Nothing  greeted  him  but  an 
empty  paviUon.  All  the  fragrance  of  the  place  had 
vanished .  The  Master  leaned  over  the  deserted  railing, 
looked  up  in  sadness,  and  sighed  as  he  gazed  at  the 
grey  clouds,  saying  :  "  Fairy  maiden,  you  have  ridden 
away  on  yonder  cloud  and  are  in  audience  before 
Heaven's  high  King.  Now,  however,  that  the  very 
shadow  of  the  fairy  has  vanished  what's  the  use  of 
sighing  ?  " 

So  he  came  down  from  the  pavilion.  Standing  by 
the  peach  tree  where  first  he  met  her  he  said  to  him- 
self :  "  These  flowers  will  know  my  depths  of  sorrow." 

When  the  evening  shadows  began  to  lengthen  he 
returned  home. 

Some  days  later  Thirteen  came  to  Master  Yang  and 
said  :  "  The  other  day  on  account  of  my  wife's  illness 
we  failed  in  our  outing  together.  My  regret  over  that 
disappointment  is  still  with  me,  and  now  though  the 
plums  and  the  peaches  are  past  and  the  long  stretch 
of  the  willows  is  in  bloom,  let  us  take  half  a  day  away, 
you  and  I,  to  see  the  butterflies  dance  and  hear  the 
orioles  sing." 

Master  Yang  answered :  "  The  green  sward  with 
the  willows  is  prettier  even  than  the  flowers." 

So  the  two  went  together  outside  the  gates  of  the 
city  across  the  wide  plain  to  the  green  wood.  They 
sat  upon  the  grass  and  made  counting  points  of 
flowers  to  reckon  up  the  drinks  they  had  taken.  Just 
above  them  was  an  old  grave  on  an  elevated  ridge. 
Artemisia  weeds  grew  over  it,  the  fresh  sod  had  fallen 
away,  and  there  were  bunches  of  spear  grass  and 

89 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

other  green  tufts  mixed  together,  while  a  few  weakly- 
looking  flowers  strove  for  life. 

Master  Yang,  awakened  from  the  dejection  caused 
by  the  wine  he  had  drunk,  pointed  to  the  grave, 
saying :  "  The  good  and  the  good-for-nothing, 
the  honourable  and  the  mean,  in  a  hundred  years 
will  all  have  turned  to  heaped  up  mounds  of  clay. 
This  was  the  regret  of  Prince  Maing-sang  long, 
long  ago.  Shall  we  not  drink  and  be  merry  while  we 
may  ?  " 

Thirteen  replied  :  "  Brother,  you  evidently  don't 
know  whose  grave  this  is.  This  is  the  grave  of 
Chang-yo,who  died  unmarried.  Her  beauty  was  the 
praise  and  admiration  of  all  the  world  in  which  she 
lived,  and  so  she  was  called  Chang  Yo-wha,  the 
Beautiful  Flower.  She  died  at  the  age  of  about  twenty 
and  was  buried  here.  Later  generations  took  pity  on 
her  and  planted  these  willows  to  comfort  her  sorrow- 
ful soul  and  to  mark  the  place.  Supposing  we,  too, 
pour  out  a  glass  by  way  of  oblation  to  her  lovely 
spirit  ?  " 

The  young  Master,  being  by  nature  kind-hearted, 
readily  said  in  reply  :  "  Good  brother,  your  words 
are  most  becoming."  So  they  went  together  to  the 
front  of  the  grave  and  there  poured  out  the  glass  of 
wine.  Each  likewise  wrote,  a  verse  to  comfort  her  in 
her  loneliness. 

The  Master's  words  ran  thus  : 

"  The  beauty  of  your  form  o'erturned  the  State, 
Your  radiant  soul  has  mounted  high  to  Heaven  ; 
The  forest  birds  have  learned  the  music  of  your  way. 
The  flowers  have  donned  the  silken  robes  you  wore. 

90 


Among  the  Fairies 

upon  your  grave  the  green  of  springtime  rests, 
The  smoke  hangs  o'er  the  long  deserted  height, 
The  old  songs  from  the  streams  that  bore  you  hence, 
When  shall  we  hear  them  sung  ?  " 

The  scholar  Thirteen 's  words  ran  thus  :    ■ 

"  I  ask  where  was  the  beautiful  land. 
And  of  whose  house  were  you  the  joy. 
Now  all  is  waste  and  desolate, 
With  death  and  silence  everywhere. 

The  grass  takes  on  the  tints  of  spring. 
The  fragrance  of  the  past  rests  with  the  flowers. 
We  call  the  sweet  soul  but  she  does  not  come, 
Only  the  flocks  of  crows  now  come  and  go." 

They  read  over  together  what  they  had  written  and 
again  poured  out  an  offering.  Thirteen  then  walked 
round  the  back  of  the  grave,  when  unexpectedly  in  an 
opening  where  the  sod  had  fallen  away,  he  found  a 
piece  of  white  silk  on  which  something  was  written. 
He  read  it  over,  saying :  "  What  busybody,  I  wonder, 
wrote  this,  and  placed  it  on  Chang-yo's  grave  ?  " 

Master  Yang  asked  for  it,  and  lo !  it  was  the  piece  he 
had  torn  from  his  sleeve  on  which  was  the  verse  he 
had  written  for  the  fairy.  He  was  astounded  at  it,  and 
greatly  alarmed,  saying  to  himself :  "  The  beautiful 
woman  whom  I  met  the  other  day  is  evidently  Chang- 
yo's  spirit."  Perspiration  broke  out  on  his  back  and 
his  hair  stood  on  end.  He  could  scarcely  control  him- 
self, and  then  again  he  tried  to  dismiss  his  fears  by 
saying  :  "  Her  beauty  is  so  perfect,  her  love  so  real. 

91 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Fairies  too  have  their  divinely  appointed  mates  ; 
devils  and  disembodied  spirits  have  theirs,  I  suppose. 
What  difference  is  there,  I  wonder,  between  a  fairy 
and  a  disembodied  spirit  ?  " 

Thirteen  at  that  moment  arose,  and  while  he  turned 
away  the  Master  took  advantage  of  the  occasion  to 
pour  out  another  glass  of  spirit  before  the  grave, 
saying  as  a  prayer  :  "  Though  the  living  and  the  dead 
are  separated  the  one  from  the  other,  there  is  no 
division  in  love  ;  I  pray  that  your  beautiful  spirit  will 
accept  of  my  devotion  and  condescend  to  visit  me 
again  this  night  so  that  we  can  renew  the  love  that  was 
broken  off." 

When  he  had  done  so  he  returned  home  with  his 
friend  Thirteen,  and  that  night  he  waited  all  alone  in 
the  park  pavilion  chamber.  He  leaned  upon  his  pillow 
and  thought  with  unspeakable  longing  of  the  beautiful 
vision. 

The  light  of  the  moon  shone  through  the  screen 
and  the  shadows  of  the  trees  crossed  the  window  case- 
ments. All  was  quiet  till  a  faint  sound  was  heard,  and 
later  gentle  footsteps  were  audible .  The  Master  opened 
the  door  and  looked,  and  there  was  the  fairy  whom  he 
had  met  on  Cha-gak  Peak.  Delighted  in  heart,  he 
sprang  over  the  threshold,  took  her  white  soft  hands 
in  his,  and  tried  to  lead  her  into  the  room,  but  she 
declined,  saying :  "  The  Master  knows  now  my  place 
of  dwelling,  and  does  he  not  dislike  me  for  it  ?  I 
wanted  to  tell  you  everything  when  we  first  met,  but 
I  was  afraid  I  would  frighten  you,  and  so  I  made 
believe  that  I  was  a  fairy.  Your  love  is  so  dear  that  my 
soul  has  a  second  time  returned  to  me,  and  my  decay- 
ing bones  are  again  clothed  with  flesh. To-day  also  your 

92 


Among  the  Fairies 

lordship  came  to  my  grave  and  poured  out  a  libation 
and  offered  me  condolences  written  in  verse.  Thus 
have  you  comforted  my  soul  that  never  had  a  master. 
I  cannot  sufficiently  express  my  thanks  when  I  think 
of  what  you  have  done,  and  so  have  come  to-night  to 
say  my  word  of  gratitude.  How  dare  I  again  have  my 
dead  body  touch  the  form  of  my  lord  ?  " 

But  the  Master  took  her  gently  by  the  arm  and  said : 
"  A  man  is  a  fool  who  is  afraid  of  spirits.  If  a  man  dies 
he  becomes  a  spirit,  and  if  a  spirit  lives  it  becomes  a 
man.  A  man  who  fears  a  spirit  is  an  idiot ;  and  a  spirit 
who  runs  away  from  a  living  man  is  a  foolish  spirit. 
They  all  come  from  one  and  the  same  source.  Why 
should  we  make  a  difference  or  divide  the  living  from 
the  dead  ?  My  thought  is  thus,  and  my  love  is  thus. 
Why  do  you  resist  me  ?  " 

The  maiden  replied  :  "  How  could  I  ever  resist 
your  kindness  or  refuse  your  love  ?  But  you  love  me 
because  of  my  dark  eyebrows  and  red  cheeks,  and 
these  are  not  true,  only  make-believe.  They  are  all 
part  of  a  great  trick  to  get  into  touch  with  one  who  is 
living.  If  the  Master  really  wishes  to  know  my  face,  it 
is  but  a  few  bones  with  the  green  ivy  creeping  through 
its  openings.  How  can  your  lordship  ever  wish  to 
come  into  contact  with  anything  so  unclean  ?  " 

The  Buddha  says  :  "  A  man's  body  is  but  froth  on 
the  water,  or  a  gust  of  wind,  all  a  make-believe," 
he  said.  "  Who  can  say  that  it  is  anything,  or  who  can 
say  that  it  is  nothing  at  all?"  So  he  led  her  into  the 
room. 

Later  as  they  sat  talking,  "  Let's  meet  every 
night,"  said  he, "  and  let  nothing  keep  us  apart." 

The  maiden  replied  :    "  Dead  spirits  and  living 

93 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

people  are  different,  and  yet  love  can  bind  even  these 
together." 

He  loved  her  from  the  depths  of  his  heart,  and 
apparently  his  love  was  reciprocated. 

When  the  sound  of  the  morning  bells  was  heard  she 
disappeared  among  the  flowers.  He  remained  leaning 
over  the  arm-rest  as  he  saw  her  go.  "  Let's  meet  again 
to-night  "  was  his  farewell  greeting,  but  she  said 
nothing  in  reply  and  was  gone. 


94 


Chapter  VI 
It  is  Cloudlet 

AFTER  meeting  with  the  fairy,  Yang  no 
longer  kept  company  with  his  friends  nor  re- 
ceived guests.  He  lived  quite  by  himself  in 
the  park  pavilion  and  gave  his  thoughts  to  this  one 
thing  only.  When  night  came  he  waited  for  her  foot- 
steps, and  while  day  dragged  on  its  way  he  waited 
again  for  the  night.  He  hoped  to  persuade  her  to  more 
frequent  visits,  but  she  refused  to  come  often.  Thus 
his  mind  became  more  and  more  consumed  with 
thoughts  of  her. 

Some  time  later  two  persons  came  to  visit  him  by 
the  side  entrance  of  the  park.  He  noticed  that  the  one 
in  front  was  his  friend  Thirteen,  while  the  other  was 
a  stranger  whom  he  saw  for  the  first  time.  Thirteen 
presented  the  stranger  to  Master  Yang.  "  This  is  Pro- 
iFessor  Too  Chin-in,"  said  he,  "  from  the  Temple  of 
the  Absolute.  He  is  as  well  versed  in  physiognomy 
and  fortune-telling  as  were  the  ancients.  He  would 
like  to  read  your  Excellency's  face,  for  which  purpose 
he  has  come  at  great  effort." 

Yang  received  him  with  open-handed  welcome.  '*  I 
have  heard  your  honourable  name  for  a  long  time," 
said  he,  "  but  we  have  never  met  before.  Our  coming 
thus  face  to  face  is  beyond  my  highest  hopes  and  ex- 
pectations. Have  you  ever  read  our  friend  Thirteen 's 
fortune  ?  What  do  you  think  of  it,  pray  ?  " 

Thirteen  repUed  for  himself,  saying  :  "  The  pro- 
fessor read  my  face  and  greatly  praised  it.  '  Within 

95 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

three  years,'  said  he, '  you  will  pass  the  examination 
and  become  a  magistrate  of  the  Eight  Districts.'  This 
satisfies  me  and  I  know  it  will  come  to  pass.  Brother 
Yang,  you  try  once  and  have  him  read  yours." 

"  A  good  man,"  said  Yang,  "  never  asks  about 
the  blessings  he  has  in  store,  but  only  of  the  troubles 
that  await  him,  and  now  you  must  tell  me  the  whole 
truth," 

After  Professor  Too  had  examined  him  for  a  long 
time,  he  said  :  "  Your  eyebrows  are  different  from 
those  of  anyone  I  have  ever  seen.  You  have 
almond  eyes  that  are  set  slantwise  across  the  cheek- 
bones. They  indicate  that  you  are  to  rise  to  the  rank 
of  a  minister  of  state.  Your  complexion  is  as  though 
powdered  with  rouge,  and  your  face  is  round  like  a 
gem.  Your  name  will  assuredly  be  known  far  and  wide. 
Across  your  temples  and  over  your  face  are  indications 
of  great  power.  Your  name,  as  a  military  officer,  will 
encompass  the  Four  Seas.  You  will  be  made  a  peer 
when  three  thousand  miles  away,  and  no  blemish  will 
ever  tarnish  your  fair  name.  One  danger  only  I  see, 
a  strange  and  undreamed  of  one.  If  you  had  not  met 
me  I  am  afraid  you  might  have  come  to  an  untimely 
end." 

"  A  man's  good  luck ,"  said  Yang,  "  or  evil  fortune 
all  pertain  to  himself  if  they  pertain  to  anjrthing.  Sick- 
ness I  accept  as  something  that  I  cannot  of  myself 
escape.  Are  there  any  signs  that  I  am  to  fall  seriously 
ill  ?  " 

Professor  Too  replied  :  "  What  I  refer  to  is  a 
wholly  unexpected  evil.  A  bluish  colour  is  evident  on 
your  upper  brow,  and  an  unpropitious  expression  has 
got  itself  fastened  on  to  the  rims  of  your  eyelids.  Have 

96 


It  is  Cloudlet 

you  any  serving  man  or  maid  in  your  employ  whose 
origin  you  are  doubtful  of  ?  " 

The  Master  thought,  in  his  heart  of  the  spirit 
Chang-yo,  and  guessed  that  this  must  be  due  to  her, 
but  he  suppressed  his  feelings  and  replied  without  a 
quaver  :  '*  There  is  no  such  person  as  you  suggest." 

Then  Too  said  further  :  "  Have  you  passed  an  old 
grave  or  anything  of  the  kind  that  has  upset  you  or 
given  you  a  fright  ?  Or  have  you  had  any  intercourse 
with  disembodied  spirits  in  your  dreams  ?  " 

"  I  know  nothing  of  that  kind,"  said  the  Master. 

Here  Thirteen  broke  in  to  say  :  "  Professor  Too's 
words  never  miss  the  mark  to  the  fraction  of  a  hair. 
Think  well,  Yang,  please,"  but  Yang  made  no  reply. 

The  Professor  then  went  on  :  "A  mortal  has  his 
being  from  the  yang  or  positive  principle  in  nature, 
while  a  spirit  has  its  from  the  negative  or  eum.  As  it  is 
impossible  to  change  day  for  night  or  night  for  day,  so 
the  difference  between  the  two  remains  for  ever  fixed, 
like  that  of  fire  and  water.  Now  that  I  see  your  Excel- 
lency's face,  I  can  read  that  some  spirit  has  got  its 
hold  upon  your  body,  and  that  in  a  few  days  it  will  get 
into  your  bones,  in  which  case  I  fear  that  nothing  can 
save  your  life.  When  this  comes  to  pass  please  do  not 
complain  against  me  or  say  that  I  did  not  tell  you." 

Master  Yang  thought  to  himself  :  **  Even  though 
Too's  words  are  true,  still  Chang-yo  and  I  have  long 
had  to  do  with  each  other,  and  have  sworn  a  solemn 
oath  to  live  and  die  together.  Our  love  increases  day  by 
day,  why  should  she  do  me  harm  ?  Yang  Won  of  Cho 
met  a  fairy  and  they  were  married  and  shared  the  same 
home,  and  Nyoo  Chon  had  for  wifef  a  disembodied 
spirit,  and  they  had  children.  If  such  things  happened 

97  G 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

in  the  past,  why  should  I  be  specially  alarmed  ?  "  So 
he  said  to  the  Professor  : "  A  man's  length  of  life  and 
good  or  evil  fortime  are  all  decreed  and  appointed  for 
him  when  he  is  born.  I  have  proofs  already  of  be- 
coming a  great  general  and  minister  of  state,  with 
riches  and  honour  to  my  name ;  how  could  an  evil 
spirit  upset  such  a  fortune  as  this  ?  " 

Too  replied  :  "  The  shortening  of  life  rests  with 
yourself ;  the  lengthening  of  life  rests  also  with 
yourself.  But  this  is  no  concern  of  mine."  So  he  gave 
his  sleeves  a  shake  and  was  gone,  the  Master  no  longer 
urging  him  to  stay. 

Thirteen  comforted  him,  saying  :  "  Brother  Yang, 
you  are  by  nature  a  lucky  man.  The  gods  are  on  your 
side,  why  should  you  fear  any  spirit  ?  This  contemp- 
tible fellow  likes  to  upset  people  with  his  miserable 
fortune-tellings  and  sleight-of-hand." 

So  they  drank  together,  spent  the  day  happily  and 
then  parted.  In  the  evening  the  Master,  recovered 
from  the  effects  of  the  wine,  burnt  incense  and  sat  in 
silence  waiting  impatiently  for  Chang-yo  to  come. 
The  night  passed  on  into  the  morning  watches,  and 
there  were  no  signs  of  her.  He  beat  the  table  with  im- 
patient hand,  saying :  "  The  day  is  begiiming  to 
dawn  and  yet  there  is  no  Chang-yo."  He  put  out  the 
lights  and  tried  to  sleep,  when  suddenly  he  heard 
someone  crying  outside  his  window,  and  then  a  voice 
speaking  which  was  no  other  than  Chang-yo 's.  She 
was  saying :  "  The  Master  wears  upon  his  head  a 
demoniacal  charm,  placed  there  by  this  woeful  pro- 
fessor. I  dare  not  approach  him.  I  know  it  was  not 
accepted  of  your  own  free  will,  but  still  it  is  done  now, 
and  it  indicates  that  our  destiny  is  finished,  and  this 

98 


/■^^  ^- 


iif 

r^^ 

■t^'^  '^jT' 

Vc  ^> 

Tt^^ 

.^i?>r^>-^'c~C;i^i^_^;- 


Cloudlet's  Meeting  with  Wildgoose 


It  is  Cloudlet 

dire  creature  has  found  his  delight.  My  one  wish  is 
that  the  dear  Master  may  be  protected  safe  and  sound 
from  all  harm.  I  say  my  last  and  final  farewell." 

Yang  gave  a  great  start  of  alarm,  opened  the  door  to 
see,  but  there  was  no  trace  of  her.  A  piepe  of  folded 
paper  only  remained  on  the  doorstep.  This  he 
opened  and  read.  Two  verses  that  she  had  written  on 
it  ran  thus  : 

"  To  fill  our  lot  as  God  intends, 
We  rode  the  gilded  clouds  together. 
You  poured  the  fragrant  wine  as  friends. 
Before  my  grave  upon  the  heather. 

Ere  you  had  time  my  heart  to  see. 
We're  parted  wide  as  gods  and  men, 
I  have  no  fault  to  find  with  thee, 
But  with  a  man  called  three  and  ten." 

The  Master  read  it  over  in  a  state  of  woeful  aston- 
ishment. He  felt  his  head  and  there  under  his  topknot 
was,  sure  enough,  a  charm  against  spirits.  He  roared 
out  against  it :  "  This  miserable  demon  of  a  creature 
has  upset  my  plans,"  so  he  tore  it  all  to  pieces  and 
flew  into  a  towering  rage.  He  again  took  up  Chang- 
yo's  letter,  read  it  through,  and  suddenly  recollected, 
saying  :  "  This  word  '  three  and  ten  '  indicates  that 
her  resentment  is  directed  against  Thirteen.  He's  at 
the  back  of  this,  and  while  his  part  may  not  be  the 
wicked  one  that  Too's  is,  he  has  interfered  with  what 
is  good.  The  rascal !  I'll  give  him  a  piece  of  my  mind 
when  I  meet  him."  Then  following  the  rhyme  charac- 
ters of  Chang-yo's  verses,  he  wrote  a  reply  and  put  it  in 

99 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

his  pocket,  spying :  "  I  have  written  my  answer,  but 
by  whom  shall  I  send  it  ?  " 
It  ran  thus  : 

-'  You  mount  the  speeding  wind, 
You  ride  upon  the  cloud  ; 
Don't  tell  my  soul  you  dwell 
In  the  gruesome,  secret  shroud. 

The  hundred  flowers  that  blow. 
The  moonlight  soft  and  clear, 
Are  born  of  you,  where  will  you  go. 
My  soul,  my  life,  my  dear  ?  " 

He  waited  till  the  morning  and  then  went  to  pay  a 
call  on  Thirteen,  but  Thirteen  had  gone  for  a  walk  and 
was  not  to  be  seen.  On  three  successive  days  he  went 
again  and  again,  looking  for  him  but  failed  each  time 
to  find  him.  Even  the  very  shadow  of  Thirteen  seemed 
to  have  disappeared.  He  visited  Cha-gak  PaviUon  in 
the  hope  of  meeting  Chang-yo,  but  he  found  that  it 
was  a  difficult  thing  to  meet  a  disembodied  spirit  at 
will.  There  was  no  one  to  whom  he  could  unburden 
his  heart.  Filled  with  distress,  little  by  little  his  sleep 
failed  him  andliis  desire  for  food  fell  away. 

Justice  Cheung  and  his  wife  took  note  of  this  and  in 
their  anxiety  prepared  special  dainties,  had  him  called, 
and  while  they  talked  and  partook  together  the  Justice 
said  :  *■  Why  is  it,  Yang  my  son,  that  your  face  looks 
so  thin  and  worn  these  days  ?  " 

Yang  replied : "  Thirteen  and  I  have  been  drinking 
too  much,  I  expect  that  is  the  cause." 

Just  at  this  point  Thirteen  came  in  and  Yang,  with 

100 


It  is  Cloudlet 

anger  in  his  eye,  gave  him  a  side  glance  but  said 
nothing.  Thirteen  spoke.  "  Brother,  is  it  because  you 
are  so  taken  up  with  affairs  of  state  that  you  seem  dis- 
turbed in  heart  ?  Are  you  homesick  or  feeling  unwell  ? 
What  is  the  reason,  I  wonder,  for  your  dejected  looks 
and  unhappy  frame  of  mind  ?  " 

Yang  made  an  indefinite  answer  :  "  A  man  who  is 
away  from  home,  knocking  about  in  strange  places, 
would  he  not  be  so  ?  " 

The  Justice  then  remarked  :  "  I  hear  the  servants 
say  that  you  have  been  seen  talking  to  some  pretty  girl 
in  the  park  pavilion.  Is  that  so  ?  " 

Yang  replied  :  '*  The  park  is  enclosed,  how  could 
anyone  get  in  there  ?  The  person  who  said  that  is 
crazy." 

"  Brother,"  said  Thirteen,  "  with  all  your  ex- 
perience of  men  and  affairs,  why  do  you  blush  and  act 
so  like  a  bashful  girl  ?  Although  you  sent  off  Too 
with  such  dispatch,  I  can  still  see  by  your  face  that 
there  is  something  you  have  concealed.  I  was  afraid 
that  you  would  ^et  yourself  bemused  and  not  see  the 
danger  ahead,  and  so  I,  unknown  to  you,  placed 
Too  Jin's  charm  against  evils  under  your  topknot. 
You  were  the  worse  for  drink  and  unaware  of  what  I 
did.  That  night  I  hid  myself  in  the  park  and  took  note 
of  what  passed,  and,  sure  enough,  some  female  spirit 
came  and  cried  outside  your  window  and  then  said  her 
good-bye.  She  cleared  the  wall  at  a  bound  and  was 
gone.  I  know  by  this  that  Too  Jin's  words  were  true, 
and  so  my  faithfulness  has  saved  you.  You  have  not 
thanked  me  for  it,  however,  but  on  the  other  hand 
have  seemed  angry.  What  do  you  mean  by  such  con- 
duct ?  " 

lOI 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Yang  could  no  longer  conceal  the  matter,  and  so 
said  to  the  Justice :  "  Your  unworthy  son's  experience 
is  indeed  a  very  strange  and  remarkable  one,  I  shall 
tell  my  honourable  father  all  about  it."  And  so  he  told 
him  everything.  He  said  finally  :  "I  know  that 
Thirteen  has  done  what  he  did  in  my  interests,  but 
still  the  girl  Chang-yo,  even  though  you  say  she  is  a 
disembodied  spirit,  is  firm  and  substantial  in  form, 
and  by  no  means  a  piece  of  nothingness.  Her  heart  is 
true  and  honest,  and  not  at  all  of  evil  or  deceptive 
make-up.  She  would  never,  never  do  one  a  wrong. 
Though  I  am  a  contemptible  creature,  still  I  am  a  man 
and  could  not  be  so  taken  in  by  a  devil.  Thirteen,  by 
his  misplaced  charm,  has  broken  into  Chang-yo 's  life 
with  me,  and  so  I  cannot  but  feel  resentment  toward 
him." 

The  Justice  clapped  his  hands  and  gave  a  great 
laugh  :  "  Yang,  my  boy,"  said  he,  "  your  taste  and 
elegance  are  equal  to  that  of  Song-ok  [24].  You  have 
already  called  up  the  fairies ;  how  can  you  fail  to  know 
the  law  by  which  it  is  done  ?  I  am  not  joking  now 
when  I  say  to  you  that  when  I  was  young  I  met  a  holy 
man,  and  I  learned  from  him  the  law  by  which  spirits 
are  called  up,  and  I  shall  now  for  the  sake  of  my  son- 
in-law  call  forth  Chang-yo,  have  her  forgive  your  sin, 
and  comfort  your  troubled  heart.  I  wonder  if  this 
would  suit  you  ?  " 

"  You  are  making  sport  of  me,"  said  Yang.  "Even 
though  Song-ok  called  up  the  spirit  of  Lady  Yoo,  the 
law  by  which  he  did  so  has  been  lost  for  many  genera- 
tions ;  I  cannot  believe  what  you  say." 

Then  Thirteen  broke  in  :  "  Brother  Yang  called  up 
the  spirit  of  Chang-yo  without  making  a  single  effort, 

102 


It  is  Cloudlet 

and  I  drove  her  away  by  means  of  one  small  charm. 
When  we  think  of  this  it  surely  proves  that  there  is 
such  a  thing  as  calling  up  spirits  ;  why  do  you  lack 
faith  so?" 

At  this  moment  the  Justice  struck  the  screen  be- 
hind him  with  his  fan  and  called  :  "  Chang-yo,  where 
are  you  ?  " 

Immediately  a  maiden  stepped  forth,  her  face  all 
sunshine  and  wreathed  in  smiles.  She  tripped  gently 
forth  and  went  and  stood  behind  the  lady  Cheung. 

Yang  gave  one  glance  at  her,  and  lo !  it  was  Chang- 
yo.  He  was  in  a  state  of  inexpressible  astonishment 
and  entirely  unable  to  understand. 

The  Justice  and  Thirteen  looked  at  him  in  a  ques- 
tioning way,  and  asked  :  "  Is  this  a  spirit  or  a  living 
person  ?  How  can  it  come  forth  thus  into  the  broad 
lightofday?" 

The  Justice  and  the  lady  Cheung  laughed  gently, 
while  Thirteen  simply  rolled  in  fits  of  merriment.  All 
the  servants  likewise  were  convulsed  with  laughter. 

The  Justice  then  went  on :  "  Now  I'll  tell  you,  my 
son,  how  it  all  came  about.  This  girl  is  neither  a  dis- 
embodied spirit  nor  a  fairy,  but  Ka  See,  who  was 
brought  up  in  our  home  and  whose  name  is  Choon- 
oon  or  Cloudlet.  We  thought  of  you  living  by  yourself 
in  the  park  pavilion ,  so  lonely,  and  sent  this  girl ,  telling 
her  to  see  to  your  home  and  to  comfort  you.  This  was 
a  kind  thought  on  the  part  of  us  two  old  people.  But 
the  young  folks  came  in  at  this  point  and  arranged  a 
practical  joke  that  has  gone  beyond  all  bounds  and 
limits,  and  put  you  to  no  end  of  discomfort,  and  yet  a 
laughable  enough  joke  in  its  way." 

Thirteen,  at  last  getting  himself  under  control, said : 

103 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

"  Your  meeting  the  fairy  twice  was  a  favour  accorded 
you  by  me.  You  have  not  been  thankful  to  me  as  a 
go-between,  but  have,  on  the  other  hand,  treated  me 
as  an  enemy.  Evidently  you  are  a  man  with  no  grati- 
tude of  heart." 

Here  Yang  laughed  and  said  :  "  My  father  it  was 
who  sent  her  to  me,  and  Thirteen  it  was  who  played 
the  trick  between  us  ;  what  possiSle  favour  have  I  to 
thank  him  for  ?  " 

Thirteen  replied  :  "  I  am  unmoved  by  your  repri- 
mand for  the  joke.  The  whole  plan  of  it,  and  the 
directions  for  the  carrying  of  it  out,  belong  to  another 
person.  I  bear  only  the  smallest  part  in  the  blame." 

Then  Yang  laughingly  looked  at  the  Justice  and 
said  :  "  Can  it  be  true,  did  you,  my  father,  play  this 
joke  on  me  ?  " 

The  Justice  said :"  By  no  means .  I  am  already  an  old , 
grey-headed  man.  Why  should  I  indulge  in  the  sport 
of  children  ?  You  have  made  a  mistake  in  so  thinking." 

Then  Master  Yang  looked  at  Thirteen  and  said  : 
"  If  you  are  not  at  the  back  of  it  I'd  like  to  know 
who  is  ?  " 

Thirteen  made  answer  :  "  The  sage  says,  *  What 
comes  forth  from  me  returns  to  me  again.'  Think, 
brother,  where  this  could  come  from.  Who  did  you^ 
once  play  a  trick  upon  and  deceive  ?  If  a  man  can 
become  a  woman,  why  can't  a  woman  become  a  fairy, 
or  again  a  fairy  become  a  disembodied  spirit  ?  What 
is  there  so  strange  about  it  ?  " 

Then  it  was  that  the  Master  understood.  He  laughed 
and  said  to  the  Justice  :  "  I  see  it  now,  I  see  it  now.  1 
played  a  trick  once  upon  the  young  lady  of  this  house 
and  she  has  never  forgotten  it." 

104 


It  is  Cloudlet 

The  Justice  and  his  wife  both  laughed,  but  said 
nothing  in  reply. 

Master  Yang  then  turned  to  Cloudlet  and  said  : 
"  Cloudlet,  you  are  indeed  a  bright  and  clever  girl, but 
for  you  to  undertake,  first  of  all,  to  deceive  the  man 
you  intend  to  serve,  is  hardly  the  law  that  governs 
husband  and  wife,  is  it  ?  " 

Cloudlet  knelt  down  and  made  her  reply  :  "  Your 
humble  servant  heard  only  the  general's  orders,  not 
the  commands  of  her  king." 

Yang  sighed  and  said  :  "  In  olden  times  fairies  in 
the  morning  were  clouds  and  in  the  evening  they 
became  rain,  but.  Cloudlet,  you  became  a  fairy  in  the 
morning  and  a  disembodied  spirit  in  the  evening. 
Though  clouds  and  rain  differ  they  were  one  and  the 
same  fairy,  and  though  the  fairy  I  saw  and  the  spirit 
differed  they  were  one  and  the  same  Cloudlet  [25]. 
Yang  Wang  understood  it  to  be  one  and  the  same 
fairy  in  the  trick  of  the  rain  and  the  clouds.  I,  too, 
understood  it  to  be  Cloudlet  now,  so  why  talk  about 
fairy  or  spirit  ?  Still  when  Yang  Wang  saw  a  cloud  he 
didn't  call  it  a  cloud  but  a  fairy,  and  when  he  saw  the 
rain  he  did  not  call  it  the  rain  but  his  fairy.  I,  when  I 
met  a  fairy,  did  not  call  her  Cloudlet  but  a  fairy,  and 
when  I  met  a  spirit  I  did  not  call  it  Cloudlet  but 
a  spirit,  which  shows  that  I  have  not  yet  attained  to 
Yang  Wang ;  and  also  that  Cloudlet's  power  to 
change  is  not  equal  to  that  of  the  ancient  fairy.  I 
have  heard  it  said  that  a  powerful  general  has  no 
poor  soldiers.  Since  the  soldier  is  such  as  this,  I  can 
only  guess  at  the  nature  of  the  general  whom  I  have 
not  seen." 

All  joined  in  the  universal  merry-making,  more 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

refreshments  were  brought  in,  and  they  spent  the  day 
in  feasting. 

Cloudlet,  a  new  person  in  the  company,  sat  on  the 
mat  and  took  part.  When  night  had  fallen  she  carried 
a  lantern  and  went  with  her  lord  to  the  Park  Pavilion. 
He,  hilarious  from  wine,  took  her  by  the  hand  and 
jokingly  said  :  "  Are  you  truly  a  fairy  or  a  spirit  ?  " 
Again  he  added  :  "  Not  a  fairy,  and  not  a  spirit,  but  a 
living  person.  If  I  can  love  a  fairy  thus,  and  even  a 
spirit,  how  much  more  a  living  person.  You  are  not  a 
fairy,  and  you  are  not  a  spirit ;  but  she  who  made  you 
a  fairy,  and  again  she  who  made  you  a  spirit,  surely 
possesses  the  law  by  which  we  turn  to  fairies  and 
spirits,  and  will  she  say  that  I  am  but  a  common  man 
of  earth  and  not  want  to  keep  company  with  me  ?  And 
will  she  call  this  park  where  I  live  the  dusty  world  of 
men,  and  not  wish  to  see  me  ?  If  she  can  change  you 
into  a  fairy  or  into  a  spirit,  can't  I  do  just  the  same  and 
change  you  too  ?  If  I  turn  you  into  a  fairy  shall  I  turn 
you  into  Han-ja  who  lives  in  the  moon,  or  if  I  turn 
you  into  a  spirit  shall  it  not  be  into  Chin-chin  of 
Nam-ak  that  I  turn  you  ?  " 

Cloudlet  replied  :  "  Your  dishonourable  wife  has 
done  a  bold  and  terrible  thing,  and  my  sins  of  decep- 
tion are  without  number.  Please,  my  master,  will  you 
ever  forgive  me  ?  " 

The  Master  replied  :  "  Even  when  you  changed 
into  a  spirit  I  did  not  dislike  you.  How  could  I  now 
bear  any  fault  in  mind  toward  you,  my  Cloudlet  ?  " 

She  arose  and  bowed  her  thanks. 

After  Yang  Hallim  had  won  his  honours  he  entered 
the  office  of  the  graduates,  where  he  had  his  official 
duties  assigned  him.  Till  the  present  he  had  not  yet 

io6 


It  is  Cloudlet 

visited  his  mother,  whom  he  greatly  desired  to  see  and 
bring  up  to  the  capital,  so  that  she  might  be  present  at 
his  wedding  ;  but  just  at  this  juncture  a  mighty  event 
happened  that  changed  all  his  plans.  The  Tibetans 
arose  in  revolt  and  marched  into  the  western  part  of 
the  kingdom.  The  three  governors  also  of  the  territory 
north  of  the  river,  in  league  with  their  stronger  neigh- 
bour, arose  likewise,  calling  themselves  the  Kings  of 
Yon,  Cho  and  Wee.  The  Emperor,in  a  state  of  anxiety, 
discussed  the  whole  situation  with  his  ministers  and 
made  preparation  to  send  troops  to  put  them  down, 
but  the  various  officials  could  not  agree  on  a  plan  of 
action,  till  at  last  the  graduate  Yang  So-yoo  stepped 
forth  and  said  :  "  In  olden  times  Han  Moo-je  sum- 
moned the  king  of  southern  Wol,  and  remonstrated 
with  him.  Let  your  Majesty  do  the  same.  Have  an 
imperial  order  written  out  and  reason  with  these  men. 
If  after  that  they  do  not  yield,  then  let  troops  go 
against  them  with  all  the  force  possible." 

The  Emperor,  pleased  with  this,  commanded  So- 
yoo  immediately  to  write  out  such  an  order.  So-yoo 
bowed  low,  took  the  pen  as  commanded,  and  wrote  it. 

Delighted  with  him,  the  Emperor  said  :  "  The 
form  is  splendid  and  preserves  our  dignity,  at  the 
same  time  demonstrating  our  favour.  So  reasonable  is 
it,  too,  that  the  foolish  rebels  will  be  won  over  I  am 
sure." 

Thus  was  it  sent  to  the  three  armies  in  insurrection. 
Cho  and  Wee  at  once  laid  aside  their  claims  to  king- 
ship, submitted,  and  sent  humble  memorials  confess- 
ing their  sins.  Along  with  these  came  ten  thousand 
horses  and  a  thousand  rolls  of  silk  as  tribute.  Only 
the  King  of  Yon  refused.  His  district  was  far  distant 

107 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

from  the  capital,  and  he  had  under  his  command  many 
well -trained  troops. 

The  Emperor  announced  that  the  submission  of 
Cho  and  Wee  was  due  entirely  to  the  merits  of  Yang 
So-yoo,  and  he  wrote  out  the  following  edict : 

"  About  a  hundred  years  ago  the  three  districts 
to  the  north  of  the  river,  each  separated  by  wide 
stretches  of  territory,  and  trusting  in  its  trained 
forces,  raised  an  insurrection.  The  Emperor, 
Tok-chong,  marshalled  an  army  of  a  hundred 
thousand  men  and  ordered  his  two  best  generals 
to  the  front.  But  they  failed  entirely  to  obtain 
the  required  submission.  Now,  however,  by  one 
word,  written  by  Yang  So-yoo,  we  have  brought 
two  armies  of  rebellion  to  terms,  in  which  not  a 
single  soldier  was  killed  or  a  person  injured.  The 
power  of  the  Emperor  has  been  demonstrated  to  a 
distance  of  ten  thousand  li.  We  view  this  with 
deepest  gratitude,  and  send  herewith  five  thousand 
rolls  of  silk  and  fifty  horses  to  express  out  highest 
favour." 

He  desired  to  raise  his  rank,  but  Yang  So-yoo  went 
into  the  imperial  presence,  thanked  his  Majesty ,  and 
declined  the  favour,  saying  :  "  The  striking  off  of  a 
draft  of  an  imperial  order  is  the  duty  of  a  minister  ; 
the  submission  of  the  two  armies  is  due  to  your 
imperial  prestige.  What  merit  have  I  ever  won  to 
receive  such  bountiful  gifts  as  these  ?  There  remains 
still  one  army  unyielded.  I  regret  that  I  have  not  been 
able  to  draw  the  sword  and  wipe  out  this  disgrace. 
How  could  your  humble  subject  receive  promotion 

io8 


It  is  Cloudlet 

with  pleasure  under  such  circumstances  ?  My  office 
now  is  sufficiently  high  to  display  any  merits  that  I 
have.  Nothing  would  be  gained  by  its  being  higher. 
As  victory  or  defeat  are  not  dependent  on  the  number 
of  troops  engaged,  I  wish  that  I  might  have  a  single 
company  of  soldiers,  and  with  the  backing  of  your 
imperial  presence  go  out  to  settle  the  matter  with  Yon 
for  life  or  death.  Thus  would  I  make  some  little 
return  for  the  ten  thousand  favours  that  your  Majesty 
has  conferred  upon  me." 

The  Emperor  gladly  welcomed  the  suggestion,  and 
asked  the  opinion  of  the  ministers  assembled.  They 
replied :  "  Three  armies  in  league  with  each  other  were 
against  us,  and  now  two  have  submitted.  Mad  little 
Yon  will  be  like  a  piece  of  meat  ready  for  the  boiling 
pot,  or  an  ant  caught  in  a  hole.  Before  the  imperial 
troops  he  will  be  but  a  dried  twig,  or  a  decayed  piece 
of  wood  ready  to  be  broken.  Let  the  imperial  army 
try  all  other  means  before  striking.  Let  Yang  So-yoo 
be  put  in  command,  to  try  his  skill  for  better  or  for 
•^oTse.  If  after  that  Yon  does  not  yield,  then  make  the 
attack." 

The  Emperor,  deeming  this  wise,  ordered  Yang  So- 
yoo  to  start  for  Yon  with  all  the  insignia  of  power, 
flags,  drums  and  battle-axes,  but  his  commands  were 
to  use  persuasion  first.  So  Yang  So-yoo  set  out  on  his 
way  after  having  said  good-bye  to  Justice  Cheung. 

On  parting,  the  Justice  said  to  him  :  "  Men  are 
wicked  in  these  far  distant  places,  and  rebellion 
against  the  state  is  a  matter  of  everyday  occurrence. 
I  feel  that  you,  a  scholar,  are  going  into  danger.  If 
some  unforeseen  misfortune  should  overtake  you,  it 
would  not  only  be  your  old  father-in-law  who  would 

109 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

be  left  desolate,  but  the  whole  house.  I  am  old  and 
out  of  the  question,  so  I  no  longer  have  a  share  in  the 
affairs  of  state.  My  desire  is  to  send  a  memorial  object- 
ing to  your  going." 

"  Please  do  not  do  that,"  said  Yang  in  reply,  "  and 
don't  be  over  anxious.  These  far-off  peoples  sometimes 
take  advantage  of  a  disturbed  state  of  affairs  in  the 
government  to  rise  up,  but  with  the  Emperor  so  great 
and  powerful,  and  the  Government  so  enUghtened, 
there  is  no  such  fear.  Also  the  two  states  of  Cho  and 
Wee  have  yielded.  Why  should  we  be  anxious  about 
the  little  isolated  kingdom  of  Yon  ?  " 

"  The  Emperor's  commands,"  said  the  Justice, 
"  are  supreme,  and  the  matter  is  already  decided,  so  I 
have  nothing  more  to  say.  Only  be  careful  of  your- 
self, and  let  not  His  Imperial  Majesty  have  any 
cause  for  shame." 

The  lady  of  the  house  wept  over  his  going,  and  in 
parting  said  :  "  Since  we  have  won  so  noble  a  son  we 
have  tasted  the  joys  and  delights  of  old  age.  Alas  for 
my  feelings  now  as  you  start  off  for  this  distant  region! 
To  go  and  return  quickly  is  my  one  wish  for  you." 

Yang  withdrew,  betook  himself  to  the  park 
pavilion,  and  made  ready  for  his  journey.  Cloudlet 
shed  pearly  tears  over  him,  saying  :  "  When  my  lord 
went  daily  to  his  duties  in  the  palace,  your  hvunble 
wife  loved  to  rise  early,  make  neat  his  room,  bring 
dress  and  official  robes  ;  while  you  looked  on  with 
kindly  eyes  upon  her,  and  delayed  your  steps  as 
though  you  foimd  it  hard  to  go.  Now  you  are  starting 
for  a  thoiisand  miles  distant.  What  word  of  love 
could  answer  under  such  a  circumstance  as  this  ?  " 

The   Hallim   replied   laughing :    "  The   man  of 

no 


It  IS  Cloudlet 

affairs  who  enters  upon  a  mighty  question  of  the 
state,  impelled  by  the  commands  of  his  Emperor, 
thinks  naught  of  life  or  death.  All  the  minor  affairs  of 
the  day  disappear  from  his  vision.  You,  Cloudlet,  bear 
up  bravely  now.  Don't  be  anxious  or  mar  your  pretty 
face.  Serve  your  mistress  well  and  in  a  little,  if  all  goes 
right,  I'll  finish  what  I  have  to  do,  win  great  renown, 
and  come  back  with  flying  colours  and  a  gold  seal 
like  a  grain  measure  hanging  at  my  belt.  Be  patient 
and  wait  for  me." 

He  passed  through  the  gate,  mounted  his  palan- 
quin, and  was  gone.  When  he  reached  the  city  of 
Nakyang  he  found  once  more  the  old  landmarks.  On 
his  last  journey  he  had  been  but  a  youngster  in  his 
teens,  in  his  student's  dress,  riding  a  hobbling 
donkey. 

A  few  years  only  had  passed  and  here  he  was  with 
the  banners  and  spears  of  office  going  before  him, 
and  he  seated  in  a  four-horse  palanquin.  The  magis- 
trate of  Nakyang  hastily  repaired  the  roads,  while  the 
governor  of  the  south  of  the  river  respectfully  assisted 
him  on  his  way.  The  glory  of  his  progress  lightened 
the  world,  while  the  vanguard  of  his  march  shook  the 
towns  like  an  earthquake.  Country  folk  struggled  for 
a  place  to  see,  and  the  passers  by  in  the  street  shouted 
out  their  acclamations.  So  great  was  his  splendour  as 
he  passed  along. 

General  Yang  got  his  boy  servant  to  make  inquiry 
first  of  all  as  to  any  news  of  Moonlight.  He  went  to 
her  home  and  inquired  but  the  entrance  gates  were 
locked,  and  the  upper  pavilion  closely  curtained ;  only 
the  cherry  blossoms  were  in  bloom,  smiling  over  the 
wall.  He  asked  the  neighbours,  and  they  answered  that 

III 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Moonlight  had  left  the  place  a  year  and  more  ago. 
Some  gentleman,  they  said,  who  was  on  his  way  to  a 
distant  part  of  the  country  had  become  betrothed  to 
her,  and  after  that  she  pretended  to  be  ill,  received  no 
guests,  went  to  no  official  feasts,  and  declined  every- 
thing. A  little  later,  in  a  fit  of  insanity,  she  threw  away 
her  jewels  and  head  ornaments,  donned  the  garb  of  a 
Taoist  priestess,  and  went  visiting  the  temples  in  the 
mountains.  She  never  came  back  and  no  one  knew 
where  she  had  gone. 

The  boy  returned  and  told  his  master,  and  Yang, 
who  had  been  happy  in  the  high  expectation  of  seeing 
her,  fell  into  a  fit  of  gloom  and  sadness.  He  passed  her 
home  and  thought  of  the  happy  experiences  gone  by, 
and  with  disappointed  feelings  went  to  a  public  guest- 
house. Their  mysterious  meeting  had  now  faded  away 
,into  the  distance,  leaving  him  sleepless. 

The  governor  sent  him  a  score  of  dancing-girls  to 
entertain  him,  all  women  of  note  in  their  world.  As 
they  sat  about  in  their  pretty  dresses  he  recognised 
among  them  some  who  had  been  present  at  the  Bridge 
Pavilion.  They  vied  with  each  other  in  their  attempts 
to  please  and  win  his  attention,  but  he  would  have 
nothing  to  do  with  any  of  them. 

He  composed  these  two  verses  and  wrote  them  on 
the  wall : 

**  The  rain  sweeps  by  the  Bridge  Kiosk, 
And  o'er  the  catkins  fresh  and  green, 
Its  music  calls  me  through  the  dusk. 
Back  to  its  flowery  silken  scene. 


112 


It  is  Cloudlet 

Behold  me  now  dressed  out  in  state, 
Returned  to  greet  my  chosen  one, 

But  I  have  come,  alas,  too  late. 

And  she,  who  stirred  my  heart,  is  gone." 

When  he  had  finished,  he  tossed  aside  his  pen, 
mounted  his  palanquin  and  rode  away,  while  all  the 
dancing  folk  seeing  him  thus  leave  untouched  by 
their  influence  held  down  their  heads  in  shame. 

The  dancing-girls  copied  the  verses  and  gave 
them  to  the  governor,  and  he  scolded  them  soundly. 
"  If  you  had  won  General  Yang's  attention  your  names 
would  have  been  enhanced  a  hundred -fold,"  he  said. 
"  But  with  all  your  finery  you  did  not  even  win  a  glance 
from  him,  and  have  caused  Nakyang  to  lose  face." 

He  asked  them  who  the  General  meant  by  his 
reference,  and  when  he  learned  who  it  was,  he  adver- 
tised for  Moonlight  far  and  wide  in  the  hope  of 
finding  her  before  the  General's  return. 

Yang  finally  reached  the  land  of  Yon.  The  people 
living  in  that  distant  region  had  never  dreamed  of  the 
power  or  splendour  of  the  capital.  Now  when  they  be- 
held Yang  Hallim  he  seemed  like  the  fabled  unicorn 
that  steps  down  upon  the  earth,  or  the  phoenix  that 
appears  among  the  clouds.  They  jostled  each  other  to 
get  close  round  his  palanquin,  and  blocked  his  way 
in  their  desire  to  see. 

The  General  in  his  power  of  execution  was  like  the 
swift  thunder,  and  in  his  readiness  to  bestow  favour 
like  the  spring  rain  ;  so  that  these  rude  people  were 
overcome  by  his  presence,  danced  and  sang  with 
delight,  and  said  to  one  another : "  His  divine  Majesty 
the  Emperor,  will  indeed  spare  us." 

113  H 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

When  Yang  met  the  King  of  Yon  he  spoke  so  boldly 
of  the  power  and  prestige  of  His  Majesty  ;  praised 
the  attitude  of  the  Government,  and  explained  so 
fully  the  difference  between  submission  and  oppo- 
sition, assistance  and  resistance,  that  his  words  were 
as  irresistible  as  the  lift  of  the  sea,  or  the  falling  of 
autumh  frosts.  The  King  of  Yon,  greatly  moved  and 
impressed,  was  won  over.  He  bowed  down  to  the 
earth  and  confessed  his  faults,  saying  :  "  We,  in  this 
benighted  district,  are  so  far  away  from  the  great 
centre  of  things,  and  so  out  of  touch  with  imperial 
blessings  and  favours,  that  we  dared  to  offer  resistance 
to  the  state.  We  have  made  light  of  life,  and  have  been 
ignorant  whence  our  blessings  and  favours  come. 
And  now  having  heard  the  convincing  words  of  your 
Excellency,  I  see  that  I  have  done  a  great  wrong.  No 
more  shall  such  mad  thoughts  possess  me,  but  I  shall 
sincerely  do  the  part  of  a  loyal  and  faithful  subject. 
Please,  on  your  return,  make  my  statement  for  me  and 
let  this  tributary  land  find  peace  instead  of  war  ;  and 
blessing  and  life  instead  of  calamity.  This  indeed 
would  be  for  me  more  than  I  could  expect." 

A  great  feast  was  held  in  the  palace  of  Yon,  and  the 
General  was  offered  when  he  left  a  hundred  talents 
of  gold  and  ten  of  the  finest  horses  as  tribute  presents. 

Yang  bowed,  but  did  not  receive  them,  setting  out 
empty-handed  on  his  way  westward  toward  home. 
In  ten  days  or  so  he  passed  Hantan,  the  old  capital  of 
Cho,  when  suddenly  a  beautiful  lad,  riding  a  superb 
horse,  appeared  just  in  front  of  him.  He  had  heard 
the  calls  of  the  General's  out-runners  and  had 
dismounted,  standing  respectfully  by  the  side  of  the 
way. 

H4 


It  is  Cloudlet 

The  General  looked  at  him  and  said  :  "  Yonder 
horse  that  that  young  man  rides  is  a  Persian  steed, 
surely." 

As  he  advanced  closer  the  young  rider  appeared 
strangely  beautiful,  as  an  opening  flower,  or  the  re- 
turning circle  of  the  moon.  His  graceful  form,  with 
the  light  that  seemed  to  emanate  from  him,  dazzled 
the  eyes  of  the  onlooker. 

"  In  all  my  travels,"  said  Yang,  "  I  never  before 
saw  so  handsome  a  youth  as  yonder  lad.  One  glimpse 
of  his  beautiful  face  would  tell  of  his  gifts  and  graces." 
He  said  to  the  servants  :  "  Invite  him  to  follow  us, 
will  you?" 

When  the  General  had  retired  to  his  lodgings  for 
the  night,  the  young  man  appeared  before  the  door 
and  was  invited  in.  Yang  at  once  fell  a  captive  to  his 
spell,  and  said  :  "  Your  handsome  face  has  wholly 
won  my  heart.  I  wish  to  take  you  with  me,  and  so  sent 
for  you.  My  one  fear  has  been  that  you  might  not 
respond  or  wish  to  follow.  Now  that  you  have  come  I 
am  greatly  delighted  and  want  to  know  who  you  are 
and  your  honourable  name." 

The  young  man  made  answer  :  "  Your  humble 
servant  is  from  the  north  land,  and  my  surname  is 
Chok,  and  given-name,  Paik-nan.  I  have  been  brought 
up  in  an  exiled  country,  have  had  no  special  friends  or 
teachers  to  guide  me,  and  so  my  learning  is  of  a  very 
shallow  nature,  attaining  to  proficiency  neither  in  the 
character,  nor  in  the  handling  of  the  sword.  My 
heart  only  is  right  adjusted,  and  means  to  stand  by  its 
friends,  or  if  need  be  die  for  them.  Your  Excellency's 
journey  through  the  north,  where  all  have  been 
equally  impressed  by  your  commanding  presence  and 

"5 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

unexampled  favour,  has  awakened  my  heart  in  admir- 
ation to  a  point  that  knows  no  bounds.  Forgetful  of 
my  low  birth  and  ignorance,  I  desired  to  attach  myself 
to  your  lordship,  to  be  your  faithful  bird  of  the  morn- 
ing or  watch-dog  of  the  night.  Now  your  Excellency, 
taking  note  of  this  wish  of  mine,  has  condescended  to 
call  me,  and  has  done  me  such  an  honour  as  I  had 
never  dreamed.  Assuredly  the  great  teacher's  kind- 
ness bestowed  upon  a  humble  pupil  is  mine  to-day." 

Yang,  greatly  delighted,  made  reply :  "  The 
ancients  said,  *  A  similar  sound  makes  like  echo,  and 
like  strength  does  a  similar  deed.'  A  beautiful  ful- 
filment of  this  is  evident  in  the  fact  that  our  hearts 
agree." 

From  this  time  on  Master  Chok  rode  bridle  by 
bridle  in  company  with  the  General  and  lived  and 
dined  with  him.  They  admired  the  beauties  of  nature 
together,  delighted  themselves  under  the  soft  rays  of 
the  moon,  and  forgot  all  about  the  hardships  of  the 
way. 

Again  the  cavalcade  arrived  at  Nakyang  and 
crossed  the  Chon-j in  Bridge.  Old  remembrances  came 
crowding  back  on  Yang,  and  he  said  :  "  Now  that 
Moonlight  is  a  so-called  priestess,  my  heart  con- 
demns me  when  I  think  of  her  wandering  over  the 
hills  in  order  to  fulfil  her  vow,  and  to  wait  for  my 
return.  Already  I  have  gone  by  once  with  the  insignia 
of  battle-axes  and  banners  accompanying  me,  but  she 
was  nowhere  to  be  seen.  So  all  our  plans  have  come 
to  naught,  as  men's  plans  do.  How  can  I  be  other  than 
sad  ?  If  Moonlight  knew  of  my  coming  she  would  not 
fail  to  meet  me,  but  her  sweet  face  is  not  here.  I 
expect  that  if  she  is  not  to  be  found  in  the  Taoist 

ii6 


It  is  Cloudlet 

Temple,  she  will  be  somewhere  among  the  Buddhist 
priestesses.  How  can  I  send  word  to  her?  Alas,  if  we 
do  not  meet  this  time,  how  much  of  life  may  pass 
before  we  ever  meet  again  ?  " 

Just  then  he  raised  his  eyes  toward  the  distance  and 
there  he  saw  a  young  woman  with  a  gem  screen  hang- 
ing before  her,  leaning  gently  on  the  railing  of  a  neigh- 
bouring pavilion,  evidently  watching  the  chariots  and 
the  horses  go  by.  It  was  Moonlight. 

Yang,  pent  up  with  heart  longings  and  desire  to  see 
her  face  to  face,  caught  sight  of  her  lovely  expression 
which  took  a  fresh  and  new  grip  upon  him.  He  drove 
hastily  by  and  the  two  looked  their  messages  of  lively 
recognition  each  toward  the  other. 

When  he  reached  the  guest-house  Moonlight  was 
already  there,  having  come  by  a  short  and  ready  road. 
She  saw  him  dismount  from  the  chariot  and  tripped 
forth  to  meet  him.  First  she  bowed  low.  She  then 
accompanied  him  into  the  guest-room,  where,  in  her 
joy  of  soul,  she  took  hold  of  the  border  of  his  robes 
and  told  how  happy  she  was  after  the  sorrows  of  the 
year  that  had  gone.  Her  tears  flowed  faster  than  her 
words.  She  bowed  again  and  congratulated  him  upon 
his  safe  return.  All  that  had  happened  during  the  long 
interval  since  they  had  said  good-bye  was  told. 

"  When  you  left  me,"  said  she,  "  I  was  invited  to 
the  gatherings  of  the  princes,  and  feasts  of  the  nobil- 
ity. Invitations  came  from  north,  south,  east  and  west, 
till  I  was  wearied  out.  At  last  I  cut  off  my  hair  with  my 
own  hands  to  escape  dishonour,  and  then  pretended 
that  I  was  smitten  with  a  dangerous  illness.  I  threw 
away  all  my  pretty  ornaments,  put  on  the  dress  of  a 
priestess,  made  my  escape  from  the  busy  city  and 

117 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

went  and  lived  in  the  mountains.  From  the  guests 
who  came  to  visit  the  temples,  and  from  others  of  the 
city  and  the  capital  who  were  studying  Taoism,  I 
learned  news  of  your  lordship.  Early  last  spring  I 
heard  that  you  had  memorialised  the  Emperor  and 
had  gone  forth  as  his  special  envoy.  I  knew  that  you 
passed  the  city,  but  the  distance  was  too  great  foi:  me 
to  return.  All  I  could  do  was  to  look  toward  the 
distant  kingdom  of  Yon  and  let  my  tears  fall.  The 
magistrate,  knowing  that  I  had  become  a  priestess 
because  of  you,  showed  me  what  you  had  written  on 
the  walls  of  the  monastery,  saying  :  '  General  Yang, 
with  direct  orders  from  His  Majesty  the  Emperor, 
came  by  this  way.  Many  dancing-girls  welcomed  his 
coming,  but  because  his  lordship  did  not  see  you,  he 
was  greatly  disappointed  and  would  have  nothing  to 
do  with  any  of  them.  In  his  disappointment  he  wrote 
this  on  the  wall  and  left.  How  was  it  that  you  of  all 
others  should  be  off  there  in  the  hills  and  so  cause  my 
entertainment  of  the  envoy  to  be  a  failure  ?  ' 

"  And  thus  desirous  of  showing  you  all  respect,  he 
apologised  for  his  hard  treatment  in  the  past,  earn- 
estly desiring  me  to  come  back  to  my  home  in  the 
city  to  await  your  return.  I  was  delighted  to  do  so. 
Then  it  was  that  I  first  realised  that  I,  an  insignificant 
woman,  had  a  certain  value  attaching  to  my  person.  I 
waited  alone  in  the  Chon-jin  Pavilion  hoping  for 
your  coming.  Will  not  the  many  dancing-girls  of  the 
city  and  the  crowds  of  the  streets,  every  one  of  them, 
envy  my  place  of  honour  and  the  glory  that  comes  to 
me  ? 

"  I  have  already  learned  that  you  won  the  ktoago 
(examination),  and  that  you  were  made  a  hallim  (a 

ii8 


It  is  Cloudlet 

literary  senator),  but  I  have  wondered  whether  you 
were  married  or  not." 

Yang  replied  :  "  I  am  already  engaged  to  the 
daughter  of  Justice  Cheung,  but  the  ceremony  has 
not  yet  been  celebrated.  The  superior  attainments  of 
the  lady  are  already  known  to  me,  and  she  is  exactly 
what  you  foretold .  My  pretty  go-between  has  loaded  me 
with  obligations  greater  than  the  mountains  of  Tai." 

They  renewed  their  former  happy  acquaintance 
and  he  tarried  for  several  days.  Because  of  Moon- 
light's presence  the  young  man  Chok  did  not  call. 
Once  the  servant-boy  came  in  in  great  alarm  to  say 
to  the  master  :  "  Your  humble  servant  has  noticed 
that  the  young  gentleman  Chok  is  not  a  good  man.  I 
saw  him  in  the  women's  quarters  joking  and  playing 
with  Moonlight.  Moonlight  is  in  the  service  of  your 
lordship,  how  could  she  be  treated  thus  familiarly  ?  " 

The  Hallim  made  reply  :  "  Master  Chok  would 
never  do  such  a  thing  as  this,  and  I  have  all  confi- 
dence in  Moonlight  too  ;  you  have  been  mistaken." 

The  boy  was  very  angry  and  went  out.  In  a  little  he 
came  again  and  spoke  :  "  Your  lordship  said  that  my 
report  was  nonsense.  The  two  now  are  holding  hands 
and  enjoying  themselves  together.  If  you  will  please 
come  out  and  see  for  yourself  you  will  know  whether 
my  story  is  correct  or  not." 

Yang  went  out  and  looked  toward  the  servants' 
quarters,  and  there  the  two  were  leaning  over  the  wall 
talking  and  laughing  together,  fondling  each  other's 
hands  and  having  a  very  amusing  time. 

Desiring  to  hear  what  they  were  saying,  Yang  went 
closer,  but  master  Chok  hearing  the  sound  of  foot- 
falls took  alarm  and  ran  away.  Moonlight  looked  back 

119 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

at  the  master,  and  an  unexpected  blush  of  shame 
covered  her  face. 

Yang  asked  gently  :  "  Moonlight,  my  dear,  are  you 
specially  acquainted  with  master  Chok  ?  " 

Moonlight  replied  :  "  We  are  not  relatives,  he  and 
I,  but  I  dearly  love  his  sister  and  we  were  talking 
about  her.  I  am,  as  you  know,  only  a  dancing-girl,  so 
that  my  eyes  and  ears  are  steeped  in  the  ways  of  the 
world,  and  I  am  not  afraid  of  men.  By  holding  hands 
and  jesting,  and  whispering  as  I  have  done,  I  have 
raised  a  doubt  in  my  kind  master's  mind.  My  shame  is 
so  great  for  it  that  I  really  desire  to  die." 

Yang  said  :  "  I  have  no  doubts  of  you  at  all,  so  do 
not  be  in  the  least  disturbed." 

He  thought  to  himself :  "  Chok  is  a  young  man, 
and  his  being  caught  thus  by  me  will  make  him  feel 
ashamed.  I  must  call  him  and  assure  him  that  I  am 
not  disturbed,"  So  he  sent  for  his  boy  to  come,  but  he 
was  nowhere  to  be  found.  With  great  regret  he  said : 
"  In  olden  time  King  Cho-jang  made  them  all  break 
off  their  hat-strings  in  order  to  quiet  their  fears ;  now 
I,  in  my  aimless  peering  about,  have  disappointed  my 
friend  and  have  lost  me  my  lovely  scholar.  What  shall 
I  do  about  it  ?  "  He  made  the  servants  seek  high  and 
low,  inside  and  outside  the  walls  for  Chok. 

That  night  he  talked  over  the  past  with  Moonlight 
and  said  how  they  were  indeed  destined  for  each  other. 
They  drank  and  were  happy  till  the  hours  grew  late. 
Then  they  put  out  the  lights  and  slept.  When  the  east 
began  to  lighten  he  awoke  and  saw  Moonlight  doing 
up  her  hair  before  the  mirror.  He  looked  at  her  with 
tenderest  interest  and  then  gave  a  start  and  looked 
again.  The  delicate  eyebrows,  the  bright  eyes,  the 

120 


It  is  Cloudlet 

wavy  hair  like  a  cloud  over  the  temples,  the  rosy- 
tinted  cheeks,  the  lithe  graceful  form,  the  white  com- 
plexion— all  were  Moonlight's,  and  yet  it  was  not  she. 
Alarm  and  doubt  overcame  him  so  that  he  dared  not 
speak. 


121 


Chapter  VII 
The  Imperial  Son-in-Law 


w 


HEN  Yang  had  looked  again  carefully 
and  had  made  sure  that  it  really  was  not 
Moonlight,  he  asked  :  "  Maiden,  who  are 
you  ?  " 

She  replied  :  "  Your  servant  was  originally  from 
Pa-ju.  My  surname  is  Chok  and  my  given  name  is 
Kyong-hong,  or  Wildgoose.  When  I  was  young, 
Moonlight  and  I  became  covenanted  sisters,  and 
because  of  this  close  bond  of  union,  she  said  to  me 
last  night :  "  I  am  feeling  unwell  and  cannot  wait  on 
the  Master,  Take  my  place,  please,  and  save  me  from 
a  reprimand.  Thus  at  the  request  of  Moonlight  I 
came  boldly  into  your  lordship's  room." 

Before  she  had  done  speaking.  Moonlight  herself 
opened  the  sliding  door  and  came  softly  in.  She  said  : 
**  Your  lordship  has  won  a  new  and  wonderful  person 
to  yourself,  and  I  congratulate  you.  You  will  remem- 
ber that  I  recommended  Chok  Kyong-hong  when  we 
were  in  the  North  River  District.  Is  she  not  equal  to 
my  recommendation  ?  " 

"  She  is  sweet  in  face  and  reputation,"  replied  he. 
He  looked  at  her  again  and  behold  she  was  like  the 
young  scholar  Chok  in  every  feature.  By  way  of  in- 
quiry the  Master  remarked  :  "  The  young  literatus 
Chok  must  be  some  relative  of  yours ;  have  you  a 
brother  ?  I  regret  to  say  that  I  saw  Chok  yesterday 
acting  in  a  way  very  improper.  Where  is  he  now  do 
you  suppose  ?  " 

123 


The  Imperial  Son-in-Law 

Wildgoose  said  in  reply  :  "  I  have  no  brothers  or 
sisters." 

Then  the  Master  looked  at  her  for  a  moment  and 
suddenly  guessed  the  whole  game  that  had  been 
played  upon  him.  He  laughed  and  said  :  "  The  one 
who  followed  me  from  the  side  of  the  way  near 
Hantan  was  the  maiden  Chok  ;  and  the  one  who 
talked  across  the  wall  with  Moonlight  was  Chok  See 
also.  I  wonder  how  you  dared  to  deceive  me  in  such  a 
disguise." 

Then  Wildgoose  answered  :  "  How  could  I  ever 
have  ventured  to  do  such  a  thing  were  it  not  that  I 
have  had  bom  in  me  one  great  and  indomitable  long- 
ing that  has  possessed  me  all  my  life — ^to  attach  my- 
self to  some  renowned  hero  or  superior  lord.  When 
the  King  of  Yon  learned  my  name  and  bought  me  for 
a  heaped -up  bag  of  jewels,  he  fed  me  on  the  daintiest 
fare  and  dressed  me  in  the  rarest  silk.  And  yet  I  had 
no  delight  in  it  but  was  in  distress,  like  a  parrot  bird 
behind  cage  bars,  grieving  out  its  days  and  longing  to 
shake  its  wings  and  fly  away.  The  other  day  when  the 
King  of  Yon  invited  you  to  his  feast,  I  spied  on  you 
through  the  screen  chinks,  and  you  were  the  man  that 
my  heart  bounded  forth  to  follow.  But  the  palace  has 
nine  gateways  of  approach,  how  could  I  safely  pass 
these  ?  The  journey  on  which  you  had  entered  was 
a  thousand  miles  long,  how  could  I  escape  and  follow 
for  so  great  a  distance  ?  I  thought  over  a  hundred 
ways  and  means,  and  then  hit  on  a  plan,  but  I  dared 
not  put  it  into  execution  at  the  time  of  your  departure. 
Had  I  done  so  the  King  of  Yon  would  have  sent  his 
runners  out  to  arrest  me.  When  you  had  been  gone 
ten  days  or  more,  I  secretly  took  one  of  the  King's  fast 

123 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

horses  and  sped  forth  on  my  way,  overtaking  you  at 
Han-tan  and  making  myself  known  to  your  lordship. 
I  should  have  told  you  at  once  who  I  was,  but  there 
are  so  many  eavesdroppers  about,  that  I  did  not  dare 
to  speak  ;  so  I  made  myself  a  deceiver  and  am  guilty 
of  great  sin.  I  wore  a  man's  dress  in  order  to  escape 
those  who  might  attempt  to  arrest  me.  What  I  did  last 
night  was  done  at  the  earnest  request  of  Moonlight. 
Even  if  you  graciously  overlook  these  many  faults  of 
mine,  the  longer  I  live  the  more  I  shall  look  with 
amazement  on  my  having  been  so  bold.  If  your 
lordship  will  kindly  forgive  and  forget  my  wrong- 
doing and  overlook  my  poor  and  humble  birth  ;  if 
you  will  permit  me  to  find  shelter  under  your  wide- 
spreading  tree  where  I  may  build  my  little  nest, 
Moonlight  and  I  will  live  together,  and  after  the 
Master  is  married  to  some  noble  lady,  she  and  I  will 
come  to  your  home  and  speak  our  good  wishes  and 
congratulations . ' ' 

General  Yang  said  in  reply  :  "  My  fairest  maid, 
not  even  Chi-pool  the  famous  dancer  was  your 
equal.  Not  only  have  you  highly  esteemed  the 
attainments  of  this  poor  prince  of  Wee,  but  you 
desire  to  follow  him  for  good.  How  can  he  remem- 
ber any  fault  of  yours  ?  " 

Then  Wildgoose  thanked  him,  and  Moonlight 
said  :  "  Now  that  Chok  See  has  waited  on  my  lord 
as  well  as  I,  I  thank  thee  on  her  behalf."  And  thus 
they  bowed  repeatedly. 

Next  morning  by  break  of  day  the  General  was 
ready  to  depart,  and  said  to  the  two  :  "  There  are 
many  who  spy  and  eavesdrop  on  a  long  journey, 
so  we  may  not  go  together,  but  as  soon  as  I  have 

124 


The  Imperial  Son-in-Law 

completed  the  marriage  awaiting  me,  you  must  both 
come."  Thus  he  resumed  his  way. 

Once  more  he  reached  the  capital  and  reported  at 
the  Palace.  At  this  time,  too,  a  letter  of  submission 
arrived  from  the  King  of  Yon,  with  quantities  of 
tribute,  gold,  silver,  silks,  etc.  The  Emperor,  greatly 
delighted  at  his  success,  comforted  Yang  after  the  long 
hardships  of  the  way ;  congratulated  him,  and  proposed 
to  make  him  a  tributary  prince  as  reward  ;  but  Yang, 
alarmed  at  this  too  high  favour,  bowed  low  before  the 
throne,  asking  earnestly  to  be  permitted  to  decline. 

The  Emperor,  charmed  with  his  modesty,  yielded 
to  his  wishes  and  made  him  only  a  chief  minister  as 
well  as  Director  of  the  Hallim  (College  of  Literature), 
besides  giving  him  great  rewards.  He  caused  him  to 
be  most  lavishly  honoured  by  the  State,  so  that  history 
scarcely  presents  a  case  of  one  so  markedly  distin- 
guished. 

After  his  return,  Yang  went  to  pay  his  respects  to 
the  home  of  Justice  Cheung.  He  and  the  lady  Cheung 
greeted  him  with  special  joy,  congratulated  him  on 
his  high  attainments  and  honour,  and  were  delighted 
at  his  being  made  a  minister,  so  that  the  whole  house 
was  filled  with  rejoicing. 

Yang  then  went  to  his  quarters  in  the  park  pavilion, 
once  more  met  Cloudlet  and  renewed  the  happy  re- 
lationship with  her  that  had  been  broken  off  by  his 
departure.  f    ^ 

The  Emperor  was  greatly  delighted  with  the  rising 
fame  of  Yang  So-yoo.  He  frequently  summoned  him 
to  the  inner  palace  to  talk  about  history  and  the 
Classics,  as  well  as  other  subjects,  so  that  the  days 
went  by  imperceptibly. 

125 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

One  evening  Yang  was  detained  till  late  in  the 
presence  of  the  Emperor.  On  his  return  to  his  official 
quarters,  the  moon  shone  softly  and  his  feelings  of 
happiness  were  so  great  that  sleep  refused  to  come. 
He  went  alone  up  into  the  upper  pavilion,  and  there 
leaned  on  the  balustrade  and  looked  out  upon  the 
scene  so  softly  gilded  by  the  shining  moon.  Suddenly 
he  heard  on  the  gently  passing  breeze  the  notes  of  a 
flute,  far  off,  as  though  from  among  the  clouds, 
coming  nearer  and  nearer.  He  could  not  distinguish 
the^une,  but  the  sweetness  was  such  as  is  not  heard 
among  mortals. 

Minister  Yang  then  called  one  of  the  secretaries  of 
the  Hallim  and  asked  him,  saying  :  "  Does  this  music 
come  from  outside  the  palace,  or  is  there  someone 
within  the  enclosure  who  is  playing  ?  " 

The  secretary  said  he  did  not  know.  The  minister 
then  ordered  wine  to  be  brought,  and  when  he  had 
taken  a  glass  or  two  he  called  for  his  flute  on  which 
he  began  to  play.  The  sound  of  it  went  up  to  heaven, 
and  soft  tinted  clouds  came  out  to  listen  ;  the  phoenix 
birds  called  to  each  other,  and  two  blue  storks  came 
flying  from  the  palace  and  danced  to  the  music  ; 
while  all  the  secretaries  looked  on  in  wonder,  saying  : 
"  Wang  Ja-jin  [26]  has  come  down  to  earth  to  share 
our  joys  and  sorrows." 

The  Empress  Dowager  had  two  sons  and  one 
daughter ;  the  Emperor,  Prince  Wol,  and  Princess 
Nan-yang  or  Orchid.  When  Orchid  was  bom,  a  fairy 
had  come  down  from  heaven  to  the  Empress  in  a 
dream,  and  had  placed  a  jewel  in  her  bosom.  Such 
was  the  princess.  When  she  was  grown  up  she  was 
graceful  in  form  as  a  flower  and  all  her  ways  were 

126 


The  Imperial  Son-in-Law 

according  to  the  highest  measure  of  the  genii.  No 
marks  of  earth  were  there  upon  her.  Marvellously 
skilled  was  she,  too,  in  the  character,  in  needlework 
and  embroidery.  The  Empress  loved  her  better  than 
all  others. 

Among  the  tribute  paid  at  this  time  there  was  a 
white  stone  flute  from  the  western  empire  of  Rome. 
The  form  of  it  was  very  beautiful,  and  the  Empress 
ordered  the  court  musicians  to  try  it,  but  they  failed 
and  no  sound  was  forthcoming.  In  a  dream  one  night 
the  princess  met  a  fairy  and  learned  from  her  how 
to  play  it.  After  waking  she  tried  this  flute  of  the  far 
west  and  the  tones  were  exceeding  sweet,  agreeing 
in  harmony  with  the  laws  of  the  eum-rul  (Chinese 
music). 

The  Empress  Dowager  and  the  Emperor  were 
greatly  astonished  at  this,  but  no  outsiders  knew  any- 
thing of  it.  At  one  time  when  she  played  the  storks 
gathered  in  front  of  the  audience  hall  and  danced 
to  the  music. 

The  Empress  said  to  the  Emperor  :  "In  ancient 
days  Prince  Chin-mok's  daughter,  Nong-ok  [27], 
played  beautifully  on  the  crystal  flute,  and  now 
Orchid  plays  no  less  marvellously.  Nong-ok  found 
her  destined  husband  by  this  matchless  music  of  hers. 
May  it  be  so  with  Orchid,  and  may  we  thus  happily 
settle  the  question  of  her  marriage."  Though  Nan- 
yang  was  grown  up  she  had  not  yet  been  betrothed. 

On  this  night,  Orchid,  inspired  by  the  soft  light 
of  the  moonbeams,  played  till  the  storks  danced  be- 
fore her,  and  when  she  had  finished  they  flew  away 
to  the  office  of  the  Hallim  and  danced  there  Ukewise  ; 
so  it  became  reported  throughout  the  palace  that  the 

127 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

storks  had  danced  to  the  music  of  General  Yang. 
The  Emperor  heard  it,  and  marvelled  as  he  thought 
to  himself  :  "  The  Princess's  destiny  evidently  rests 
with  this  man." 

He  then  reported  to  the  Empress  Dowager,  say- 
ing :  "  General  Yang's  age  is  about  the  same  as  that 
of  Princess  Orchid,  and  there  is  no  one  in  the  Court 
his  equal  in  handsome  bearing  or  ability.  Never 
again  can  we  expect  to  find  his  like  if  we  search  the 
whole  wide  realm." 

The  Empress  laughed,  and  said :  "  Orchid's 
marriage  has  not  yet  been  decided  upon,  and  I  have 
been  somewhat  anxious  about  it.  Now  that  I  hear 
this,  I  am  sure  that  Yang  So-yoo  is  God's  appointed 
mate  for  her  ;  still,  I  must  have  a  look  at  him  before 
I  decide  finally." 

"  That  will  be  very  easy,"  said  the  Emperor  in 
reply.  "  I  shall  summon  Yang  one  of  these  days  to 
one  of  my  private  audiences,  have  a  talk  with  him  on 
some  literary  subject,  and  then  you  can  peep  through 
the  screen  and  see  what  kind  of  man  he  is." 

The  Empress  was  greatly  delighted  and  so  the 
matter  rested. 

Princess  Orchid's  special  name  was  So-wha,  so 
called  because  these  two  characters  were  found  en- 
graved upon  the  flute.  They  meant "  flute  harmony." 

On  a  certain  day  the  Emperor  took  his  seat  in  the 
Hall  of  the  Fairies,  one  of  the  palaces  of  the  Imperial 
Court,  and  commanded  a  eunuch  to  summon  Yang 
So-yoo.  The  eunuch  went  first  to  the  office  of  the 
Hallim,  but  learned  there  that  Yang  was  out.  Then 
he  went  post-haste  to  the  home  of  Justice  Cheving 
and  made  inquiry,  but  was  told  that  Yang  had  not 

128 


it 


The  Stork  Dance :  The  Palace  Maids  in  Waiting 


The  Imperial  Son-in-Law 

yet  returned.  So  he  rushed  about  here  and  there  but 
could  get  no  trace  of  him. 

At  this  time  Yang,  accompanied  by  Thirteen,  had 
gone  to  one  of  the  places  of  amusement,  where  he 
had  imbibed  so  freely  that  he  was  very  much  intoxi- 
cated. He  was  happy  and  having  a  hilarious  time. 
The  eunuch  hurriedly  rushed  in  and  ordered  him  to 
report  at  once  to  the  palace.  Thirteen,  alarmed  by 
this  call,  jumped  up  and  went  out.  But  Yang's  eyes 
were  heavy  with  drink  and  his  hair  was  in  disorder. 
The  eunuch  addressed  him  so  that  he  got  up  and 
changed  his  dress  and  then  followed  into  the  inner 
palace,  where  he  appeared  before  the  Emperor,  who 
commanded  him  to  sit  down. 

There  they  discussed  the  history  of  the  past  line 
of  kings,  their  successes  and  their  failures,  and  Yang, 
quickas  he  was  asked,  gave  answer,  his  words  flowing 
like  running  water. 

The  Emperor,  greatly  delighted,  said  :  "  I  should 
like  to  ask  whom  you  regard  as  greatest  among  the 
kings  of  the  past,  and  whom  among  the  ministers. 
The  Hallim  replied :  "  Among  the  kings  we  rank  Yo 
and  Soon  [28]  first,  but  we  need  not  specially  dwell 
on  them.  Han  Ko-jo  wrote  an  essay  called,  *  The 
Great  Wind,'  while  Wee  Ta-jo  wrote  one  called, 
*  The  Bright  Wind  and  Shining  Stars.'  These  come 
first  among  the  kings.  Among  ministers  are  Yi  Yung 
of  Sa-kyong,  Cho  Ja  of  Up-to,  To  Yon-myong  of 
Nam-cho,  and  Sa  Yom-eum.  These  are  regarded  as 
the  first  literary  masters.  Among  the  kingdoms  Tang 
is  first,  and  among  the  Tang  kings,  Hyon-jong. 
Among  ministers  is  Yi  Tai-baik,  who  is  without  a 
peer  in  all  the  world." 

129  I 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

The  Emperor  said  :  "  Your  opinion  is  assuredly 
just  what  mine  is.  When  I  read  Yi  Tai-baik's  '  Chong 
Pyong-sa  '  and  '  Haing  Nak-sa,'  I  was  always  very 
sorry  that  I  did  not  live  at  the  same  time  as  he 
did,  but  now  that  I  have  won  your  lordship  to  my 
side,  why  should  I  even  envy  Yi  Tai-baik  ? " 

"  I  have,"  said  his  Majesty,^  "  in  accordance 
with  ancient  law,  selected  ten  or  more  palace  women 
who  are  specially  gifted  with  the  pen  and  beautiful 
to  see,  and  put  them  under  a  secretary.  Now  I  should 
like  your  lordship,  following  the  example  of  Yi 
Tai-baik,  to  write  for  these  women  something  that 
they  would  specially  enjoy  "  ;  and  so  he  ordered  the 
ink-stone,  jade  table,  and  pens  to  be  brought,  and 
placed  before  the  master.  The  women,  delighted  that 
they  were  to  have  a  sample  of  his  renowned  penman- 
ship, brought  special  paper,  silken  pocket  hand- 
kerchiefs, embroidered  fans  and  so  forth,  on  which 
he  was  to  write. 

The  Hallim,  delighted  to  show  them  this  attention, 
wrote  with  great  readiness  and  rapidity,  dashing  off 
his  strokes  like  the  wind  and  clouds  or  the  dazzling 
lightning.  Before  the  shadows  of  the  evening  had 
begun  to  fall  he  had  finished  the  pile  of  invitations 
that  lay  before  him.  The  palace  ladies  knelt  in  order, 
passing  writings  to  His  Majesty,  who  examined 
them  all  interestedly.  Some  were  in  couplets,  some 
in  fours,  some  again  in  doubles  ;  all  were  gems 
of  their  kind.  There  was  no  limit  to  the  praise  the 
King  bestowed  upon  them.  Then  he  said  to  the 
palace  maids-in-waiting  :  "  Now  that  the  Hallim 
has  worked  so  hard  and  written  for  you,  you  must 
bring  him  the  best  wine  there  is." 

130 


The  Imperial  Son-in-Law 

Then  the  ladies  brought  choice  wine  in  golden 
platters,  in  crystal  goblets,  and  in  parrot  cups,  on 
green  stone  tables,  and  arranged  various  dainties  to 
accompany  the  wine.  Sometimes  kneeling,  sometimes 
standing,  they  vied  with  each  other  to  serve  him. 

The  Hallim  received  each  with  his  left  hand  and 
raised  it  to  his  lips  with  the  right,  and  when  he  had 
had  ten  glasses  or  so  his  face  grew  rosy  like  the  spring- 
time, while  mists  beclouded  his  vision.  Then  His 
Majesty  ordered  the  wine  to  be  removed  and  said  to 
the  women  :  '*  The  Hallim 's  verses  are  each  worth 
their  weight  in  gold.  What  will  you  give  him  now  in 
return  ?  " 

Some  of  the  women  drew  forth  the  golden  hair- 
pins that  were  shot  through  their  hair,  some  unclasped 
their  jade  belt  ornaments,  some  took  rings  from  their 
fingers.  Each  tried  to  outdo  the  other  till  their  gifts 
were  piled  up  before  him.  Then  His  Majesty  said  to 
one  of  the  eunuchs  :  "  Take  the  ink-stone  used  by 
the  Master,  the  pens,  and  the  gifts  of  the  palace- 
maids,  wrap  them  up,  and  when  he  goes  take  them 
to  his  house." 

The  Hallim  thanked  His  Majesty  for  his  kindness, 
got  up  to  go  but  fell  over.  The  Emperor  then  ordered 
a  eunuch  to  help  him  along  under  the  arms  as  far  as 
the  South  Gate,  where  they  mounted  him  on  his 
horse.  At  last  he  reached  his  quarters  in  the  park 
pavilion.  Cloudlet  received  him,  helped  him  to 
change  his  ceremonial  dress,  and  asked  in  amaze- 
ment :  "  Wherever  has  your  lordship  been  that  you 
have  drunk  so  much  ?  " 

Yang,  who  was  very  drunk  indeed,  could  only  nod 
his  head.  Then  in  a  little  time  there  came  a  servant 

131 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

bearing  a  great  load  of  gifts  from  the  Emperor — 
pens,  ink-stone,  fans,  etc.,  which  were  piled  up  at  the 
hall  entrance. 

Yang  laughed  and  said  :  "  These  are  all  presents 
that  His  Majesty  has  sent  to  you,  Cloudlet.  How  do 
my  winnings  compare  with  those  of  Tong  Pang- 
sak  ?  " 

The  next  day  the  Hallim  arose  late,  and  after  he 
had  made  his  toilet  the  gate-keeper  came  suddenly 
to  say  that  Prince  Wol  had  come  to  call  upon  him. 

Yang  gave  a  start  and  said :  "  Prince  Wol  has  come  ? 
Something  surely  must  be  the  matter." 

He  went  hastily  out  to  meet  him,  showed  him  in, 
and  asked  him  to  be  seated.  His  age  would  be  about 
twenty.  Very  handsome  he  was,  with  no  traces  of 
the  common  world  on  his  features. 

Yang,  humbly  kneeling,  said  to  him  :  "  Your 
Highness  has  condescended  to  visit  my  humble 
dwelling ;  what  orders  have  you  for  me,  please  ?  " 

The  Prince  answered  :  "I  am  an  admirer  of 
specially  gifted  men,  even  though  I  have  had  no 
opportunity  to  get  acquainted  with  your  Excellency. 
Now,  however,  I  come  with  commands  from  His 
Majesty,  and  to  convey  his  message.  The  Princess 
Nan-yang  has  now  reached  a  marriageable  age  and 
we  have  to  choose  a  husband  for  her.  The  Emperor, 
seeing  your  superiority,  and  greatly  admiring  your 
gifts,  has  made  you  his  choice,  and  has  sent  me  to 
let  you  know.  In  a  little  the  Imperial  orders  will  be 
issued." 

Yang,  greatly  alarmed,  said :  "  The  grace  of 
heaven  coming  down  to  so  low  and  humble  a  subject 
means    *  blessing  exceeding  bounds,'    and  where 

132 


The  Imperial  Son-in-Law 

blessing  exceeds  bounds  it  becomes  disaster.  There 
is  no  question  about  it.  Your  servant  is  engaged  to  the 
daughter  of  Justice  Cheung,  and  almost  a  year  has 
gone  by  since  the  gifts  were  exchanged.  I  beg  and 
beseech  your  Highness  to  make  this  known  to  His 
Majesty. 

The  Prince  replied  :  "I  shall  certainly  report  as 
you  say,  but  I  regret  it  very  much,  for  the  Emperor's 
love  of  the  highly  gifted  will  turn  out  a  disappoint- 


ment." 


The  Hallim  answered  :  "  This  matter  is  of  great 
concern  in  my  world  of  affairs,  and  one  I  dare  not 
deal  lightly  with.  I  shall  bow  before  His  Majesty 
and  ask  for  punishment." 

The  Prince  then  bade  farewell  and  returned  to  the 
palace. 

Yang  then  went  to  the  apartments  occupied  by 
Justice  Cheung,  and  reported  to  him  what  the  Prince 
had  said.  Already  Cloudlet  had  told  the  lady  of  the 
house,  so  that  the  whole  house  was  upset  and  in  a 
state  of  consternation,  no  one  knowing  what  to  do. 
Clouds  of  anxiety  gathered  on  the  old  Justice's  face 
and  over  his  eyebrows,  and  he  had  no  words  to  say. 

"  Do  not  be  anxious,"  said  the  Hallim.  "  The 
Emperor  is  good  and  enlightened  and  most  careful 
to  do  exactly  what  is  according  to  ceremony  and 
good  form.  He  would  never  set  any  of  the  affairs  of 
his  minister  at  naught,  and  though  I  am  unworthy  I 
would  die  rather  than  do  the  wrong  that  Song  Hong 
did." 

The  Empress  Dowager  had  the  previous  day 
come  into  the  Hall  of  the  Fairies  and  had  peeped  in 
on  Yang  So-yoo.  She  had  been  greatly  taken  with 

133 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

him,  saying  to  the  Emperor  :  "  He  is  indeed  a  fitting 
mate  for  Nan-yang  (Orchid).  I  have  seen  him,  and 
there  is  no  longer  any  need  for  consultation."  Thus 
she  commanded  Prince  Wol  to  report  to  Yang. 

The  Emperor  himself  now  desired  to  make  the 
same  proposition.  He  was  seated  alone  in  the  Special 
Hall.  He  was  thinking  over  the  wonderful  skill  that 
Yang  had  displayed  in  the  writing  of  the  character, 
and  desiring  once  more  to  see  what  he  had  written, 
ordered  one  of  the  eunuchs  to  have  the  women  bring 
him  their  compositions.  They  had  each  put  the 
writing  very  carefully  away,  but  one  palace  maiden 
took  the  fan  on  which  Yang  had  written,  went  alone 
to  her  room,  placed  it  in  her  bosom  and  cried  all 
night  over  it,  refusing  to  eat.  This  maiden's  family 
name  was  Chin,  and  her  given  name  was  Cha-bong. 
She  was  a  daughter  of  Commissioner  Chin  of  Wha- 
joo.  The  Commissioner  had  died  a  violent  death,  and 
Cha-bong  had  been  arrested  and  made  a  palace  maid- 
in-waiting.  All  the  women  loved  and  praised  Chin 
See.  The  Emperor  himself  summoned  her  to  his 
presence  and  desired  to  make  her  one  of  the  Imperial 
wives,  but  the  Empress,  fearing  Chin  See's  surpassing 
beauty,  did  not  consent.  "  Chin  See  is  indeed  very 
lovable,"  said  she,  "  but  Your  Majesty  has  had  to 
order  her  father's  execution.  To  have  close  relations 
with  his  daughter  would  break  the  saying  of  the 
ancients,  which  runs  :  '  Enlightened  kings  of  the 
past  put  far  away  women  who  were  related  to  the 
households  of  the  punished.'  " 

The  Emperor,  recognising  that  this  was  true, 
consented.  He  had  asked  Cha-bong  if  she  could 
read  the  character,  and  finding  that  she  could,  had 

134 


The  Imperial  Son-in-Law 

appointed  her  to  be  one  of  his  Uterary  secretaries 
and  put  her  in  charge  of  palace  documents.  Also, 
the  Empress  Dowager  had  made  her  the  literary- 
companion  of  Princess  Orchid,  to  read  to  her,  and  to 
drill  her  in  the  practice  of  composition.  The  Princess 
greatly  loved  Chin  See  for  her  beauty  of  character 
and  the  wonderful  knowledge  she  possessed.  She 
treated  her  like  a  near  relative  and  would  not  let 
her  out  of  her  sight. 

On  that  day  she  was  waiting  on  the  Empress 
Dowager  in  the  Hall  of  the  Fairies,  ready  to  attend 
the  commands  of  the  Emperor.  She  was  one  of  the 
women  who  received  the  verses  composed  by  Yang. 
Yang's  face  and  form  were  already  deeply  imprinted 
upon  her  heart.  How  could  she  mistake  him  ? 
Waking  or  sleeping,  she  had  never  dropped  him 
from  her  memory.  She  knew  him  at  once,  but  Yang, 
having  no  knowledge  that  she  was  alive,  and  being  in 
the  presence  of  the  Emperor,  did  not  dare  to  lift  up 
his  eyes.  He  simply  wrote  and  passed  on  what  he  had 
written. 

Now  that  Cha-bong  had  seen  him,  her  heart  was 
all  afire,  but  she  stifled  her  feelings  and  emotions, 
and  her  desire  to  be  known,  fearing  that  she  might 
arouse  suspicion.  After  her  return  to  her  room,  in 
distress  over  the  hopelessness  of  trying  to  piece 
together  the  broken  threads  of  her  destiny,  she  had 
unfolded  the  fan  and  read  over  what  he  had  written. 
She  opened  it  again  and  again,  not  once  putting  it 
down.    The  writing  read  : 

"  This  silken  fan  is  round  as  the  moon. 

As  fair  and  soft  as  the  hand  that  holds  it, 

135 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Over  the  harp  strings  its  zephyrs  play 

Till  it  find  its  way  to  the  Master's  keeping. 

As  round  it  is  as  the  shining  moon, 

May  the  soft  fair  hand  ne'er  lay  it  down, 

Nor  its  silken  smile  e'en  once  be  hidden, 
In  all  the  days  of  the  happy  spring." 

When  Chin  See  had  read  the  first  lines  she  sighed, 
saying  :  "  Master  Yang  does  not  know  my  heart. 
Even  though  I  am  in  the  palace,  why  should  I  ever 
be  thought  of  as  the  wife  of  the  Emperor  ?  " 

She  read  further  and  sighed  again  and  said  : 
"  Although  others  have  not  seen  my  face,  assuredly 
Master  Yang  will  never  forget  me  in  his  heart.  His 
verses  prove,  however,  that  a  foot  away  may  mean  a 
thousand  miles.  When  I  think  of  the  willow  song 
that  I  received  when  I  was  in  my  home  I  cannot 
stifle  my  sorrow." 

The  tears  dropped  upon  her  dress.  She  now  wrote 
a  verse  and  added  it  to  his  upon  the  border  of  the 
fan,  read  it  over,  and  sighed  again.  Suddenly  she 
learned  that  a  command  had  gone  forth  from  the 
Emperor  to  collect  all  the  fans  and  other  things  upon 
which  Yang  had  written.  Chin  See  in  great  alarm, 
and  with  terror  entering  into  her  very  bones,  said  : 
"  I  am  doomed  to  die,  doomed  to  die." 


136 


Chapter  VIII 
A  Hopeless  Dilemma 

THE  eunuch  said  to  Chin  See  :  "  His  Majesty 
desiring  again  to  see  the  writing  of  Master 
Yang,  has  commanded  me  to  gather  up  the 
fans.    May  I  have  yours  also  ?  " 

Chin  See  began  to  cry,  saying  :  "  Unhappy  being 
that  I  am,  I  thoughtlessly  wrote  a  companion  verse 
under  what  the  Master  had  written  for  me,  and  now 
it  proves  my  death  warrant.  If  His  Majesty  sees  it 
there  will  be  no  chance  of  escape.  Rather  than  die 
under  the  arm  of  the  law,  I  would  prefer  to  take  my 
own  life.  When  I  am  dead,  may  I  trust  you  for  the 
burial  of  my  body  ?  Please  have  pity  on  me,  and  see 
that  my  poor  remains  are  not  left  to  the  mercy  of  the 
ravens." 

The  eunuch  replied  :  "  Why  do  you,  a  literary 
secretary,  say  such  things  as  these  ?  The  Emperor  is 
kind  and  ready  to  take  a  liberal  view  of  everything. 
He  would  never  regard  this  as  a  serious  offence.  Even 
though  he  should  be  angry  I  will  use  my  office  to 
placate  him  ;  follow  me." 

Chin  See  then  followed  the  eunuch,  who  left  her 
outside  the  palace  while  he  went  in  alone.  His  Majesty 
looked  at  the  compositions  in  order  till  at  last  he 
came  to  Chin  See's  fan,  where  he  found  someone  else's 
verses  just  below  Master  Yang's.  He  wondered  what 
it  could  mean  and  asked  the  eunuch.  The  eunuch  said 
in  reply  :  "  Chin  See  told  me  that,  never  dreaming 
of  your  Majesty's  asking  to  see  them  again,  she  had 

137 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

boldly  written  this  just  below  the  poem  on  her  fan, 
bringing  upon  herself  a  sentence  of  death.  Her  pur- 
pose now  is  to  take  her  own  life,  but  I  urged  her  not 
to  do  so  and  brought  her  here." 

The  Emperor  read  what  was  written  and  it  ran  as 
follows  : 

"  The  rounded  fan,  like  the  shining  moon, 
Calls  me  back  to  the  light  that  was  dimmed  so  soon. 
I  never  had  thought  through  my  tears  and  pain. 
That  a  day  would  come  when  we'd  meet  again." 

When  his  Majesty  had  read  it  through,  he  said  : 
"  Chin  See  must  have  had  some  experience  in  the 
past  that  this  refers  to.  She  is  highly  gifted  in  her 
writing  and  worthy  of  praise."  He  then  told  the 
eunuch  to  call  her. 

As  she  came  in  she  bowed  low  in  the  court,  and 
confessed  her  favdt. 

His  Majesty  said  :  "  K  you  teU  me  the  truth  I  will 
forgive  your  deadly  sin.  To  whom  do  you  refer  in 
this  verse  ?  " 

Chin  See  bowed  again  and  said  :  "How  can  I 
dare  to  hide  anj^thing  from  your  Majesty  after  what 
I  have  done  ?  Before  my  home  was  destroyed, 
Master  Yang,  on  his  way  to  the  Government  examin- 
ation, passed  in  front  of  our  house.  Unexpectedly  we 
saw  each  other,  and  on  his  writing  a  love  song  to  me, 
I  composed  a  reply  and  sent  it  by  a  messenger,  pro- 
posing marriage.  He  accepted  it  and  so  it  was  decided 
upon.  The  other  day  in  the  Hall  of  the  Fairies,  while 
in  waiting  on  your  Majesty,  I  saw  him  again  and 
knew  his  face,  but  he  did  not  see  me.  Your  unworthy 

138 


A  Hopeless  Dilemma 

servant,  thinking  of  what  had  passed,  foolishly  wrote 
this  verse  which  has  found  me  out.  I  deserve  to  die 
a  hundred  deaths." 

His  Majesty,  sorry  for  her  sad  experience,  said  : 
"  Can  you  recall  the  love  song  that  brought  about 
your  engagement  of  marriage  ?  " 

Chin  See  then  wrote  it  out  and  presented  it  to  him. 
He  said  to  her  :  "  Though  your  fault  is  a  grievous 
one,  still,  because  you  have  wonderful  ability  and  are 
so  greatly  loved  by  the  Princess  Nan-yang,  I  forgive 
you.  Be  thankful  for  my  clemency,  and  give  your 
whole  heart  and  attention  to  the  service  of  the 
Princess."  He  then  gave  her  back  the  fan,  which  she 
received,  and  after  thanking  him  again  she  withdrew. 

On  the  same  day  Prince  Wol  returned  from  the 
home  of  Justice  Cheung  and  told  the  Emperor  that 
Yang's  future  was  decided,  and  that  he  had  already 
sent  his  marriage  presents. 

At  this  the  Empress  Dowager  was  very  much  dis- 
pleased, and  said  :  "  Master  Yang  has  already  been 
advanced  to  the  rank  of  Minister  of  State,  and  must 
know  the  laws  and  traditions  of  the  Government. 
How  can  he  be  so  determined  to  have  his  own  way  ?  " 

The  Emperor  replied  :  "  Yang  So-yoo  may  have 
sent  his  marriage  gifts,  but  that  is  not  the  same  as 
having  completed  the  marriage  ceremony.  I  am 
sure  that  if  one  reasons  with  him,  he  will  not  fail  to 
listen."  So  the  next  day  Minister  Yang  was  sum- 
moned to  the  palace,  and  he  at  once  appeared. 

The  Emperor  said  :  "I  have  a  sister  who  is  un- 
commonly gifted,  and,  apart  from  yourself,  I  know 
of  no  one  who  could  be  a  suitable  mate  for  her. 
Prince  Wol  has  already  conveyed  to  you  my  wishes, 

139 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

but  I  hear  that  you  decline  and  offer  as  an  excuse  the 
fact  that  you  have  already  sent  your  marriage  gifts  to 
the  house  of  Justice  Cheung.  Evidently  you  have  not 
thought  the  matter  over  carefully.  In  olden  days 
when  a  choice  of  Imperial  daughter-in-law  was  to  be 
made,  sometimes  even  a  wife  was  chosen,  not  to 
speak  of  one  simply  betrothed.  One  ancient  king 
spent  a  whole  life  of  regret  thinking  of  the  women 
who  refused  his  conmiand.  My  idea  is  that  we  are 
not  just  the  same  as  the  nation  at  large.  We  are  the 
parents  of  the  people,  and  therefore  what  binds  the 
people  does  not  necessarily  pertain  to  us.  Even  though 
you  should  break  oflf  your  engagement  with  Justice 
Cheung's  daughter,  she  could  easily  find  another 
opportxmity.  As  you  have  not  yet  celebrated  the 
marriage,  in  what  way  can  you  be  said  to  have  broken 
the  law  of  human  deportment  ?  " 

Yang  humbly  bowed  and  said  in  reply  :  "  Your 
Imperial  Majesty  has  not  only  not  punished  me,  but 
like  a  father  with  his  son  has  kindly  and  gently 
admonished  me.  I  thank  you  most  sincerely  for  this. 
I  have  nothing  to  say  further  except  to  add  that  my 
circumstances  are  not  like  those  of  others.  I  am  only 
a  poor  literatus  from  a  distant  part  of  the  coimtry. 
I  had  not  even  a  lodging  when  I  first  entered  the 
capital.  By  the  kindness  of  Justice  Cheung  I  escaped 
the  loneliness  that  beset  me.  Not  only  have  I  sent  the 
marriage  gifts,  but  I  have  taken  the  place  of  son-in- 
law  to  Justice  Cheung,  and  also  I  have  already  seen 
his  daughter's  face,  so  that  we  are  as  good  as  husband 
and  wife.  That  the  marriage  ceremony  was  not  already 
performed  was  due  simply  to  the  fact  that  there  were 
so  many  affairs  of  State  to  see  to,  and  that  I  have  had 

140 


A  Hopeless  Dilemma 

no  opportunity  to  bring  my  mother  up  to  the  city. 
Now,  fortunately,  since  the  outside  States  are  pacified 
and  there  are  no  longer  fears  for  the  Government, 
your  humble  servant  intended  to  ask  a  short  furlough 
to  return  home  to  bring  his  mother,  choose  a  day,  and 
have  the  marriage  performed,  when  unexpectedly 
your  Majesty's  commands  have  come  to  him  and  he 
is  alarmed  and  knows  not  what  to  do.  I  know  that  if 
I  obeyed  out  of  fear  of  punishment,  Cheung's 
daughter  would  guard  her  honour  safe  till  death,  and 
never  marry  elsewhere.  But  if  she  should  lose  her 
place  as  wife  would  this  not  be  reckoned  a  flaw  in 
the  reign  of  your  Imperial  Majesty  ?  " 

The  Emperor  replied  :  "  Your  ideas  are  most 
correct  and  good,  and  yet,  if  we  speak  according  to 
the  actual  conditions  of  the  case,  you  and  Cheung's 
daughter  are  not  really  husband  and  wife.  Why  should 
she  not  marry  elsewhere  ?  My  wish  to  decide  this 
marriage  with  you  is  not  only  in  order  to  place  you 
as  a  pillar  of  the  State  and  so  reward  you,  but  also  to 
please  the  Empress  Dowager,  who  is  greatly  taken 
with  your  bearing  and  commanding  gifts,  and  does 
not  leave  me  free  to  act  as  I  might  wish." 

Still  Yang  emphatically  declined. 

The  Emperor  said  :  "  Marriage  is  a  very  import- 
ant matter  and  so  cannot  be  settled  by  a  single  con- 
ference ;  let  us  have  a  game  of  go  and  help  to  pass  the 
time." 

His  Majesty  then  ordered  a  eunuch  to  bring  a  go- 
board,  and  they  sat  down.  Emperor  and  Minister,  to 
try  their  skill.  Only  when  the  day  grew  late  did  they 
cease  to  play, 

Yang  returned  home,  and  Justice  Cheung  met  him 

141 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

with  a  very  sorrowful  countenance.  Wiping  his  eyes 
he  said  :  "  To-day  a  command  came  from  the  Em- 
press Dowager  to  send  back  to  you  your  marriage 
gifts,  so  I  passed  the  order  on  to  Cloudlet  and  they 
are  now  in  the  park  pavilion.  If  we  think  of  it  from 
our  side,  it  puts  us  two  old  people  in  a  very  pitiful 
plight.  I  might  bear  it,  but  my  old  wife  is  overcome 
by  it  and  has  been  rendered  ill,  and  is  now  uncon- 
scious and  unable  to  recognise  her  friends." 

Greatly  upset  by  this,  Yang  turned  pale  and  was 
unable  for  an  hour  or  so  to  say  anything  in  reply.  At 
last  he  said  :  "If  they  realise  the  unfairness  of  this, 
and  if  I  memorialise  the  Government  against  it  with 
all  my  heart,  will  they  not  heed  ?  " 

The  Justice  waved  his  hand  in  opposition : 
"  Master  Yang,  you  have  already  run  counter  to  the 
Imperial  orders.  If  you  petition  against  it  I  fear  for 
the  results  ;  you  may  be  severely  punished.  Your 
only  way  is  to  submit.  Besides,  too,  under  the  circum- 
stances your  living  here  at  the  park  pavilion  will  be 
embarrassing,  so  if  you  can  find  a  suitable  place  else- 
where you  had  better  move." 

Yang  made  no  reply  but  went  into  the  Park  Pavil- 
ion, and  there  was  Cloudlet  with  tearful  face  and 
broken  voice,  who  offered  him  the  marriage  gifts. 
"  As  you  know,"  said  she,  "  I  was  ordered  by  the 
young  mistress  to  wait  on  your  lordship.  I  have  been 
kindly  treated  and  am  grateful  to  you,  but  the  devils 
have  been  jealous,  and  men  have  looked  askance  at  our 
happiness,  so  that  all  has  come  to  naught ;  and  the 
marriage  expectations  of  the  young  lady  are  hope- 
lessly ended,  I,  too,  must  bid  you  a  long  farewell, 
and  return  to  my  mistress.  Is  it  God,  or  Mother 

142 


Chin  See's  Fear :  Cloudlet  says  Farewell 


A  Hopeless  Dilemma 

Earth,  or  devils,  or  men  who  have  done  it  ?  "  Her 
sobs  and  tears  were  most  distressing. 

"  I  intend  to  petition  His  Majesty,"  said  Yang, 
"  and  I  am  sure  he  will  listen.  But  even  though  he  does 
not,  when  once  a  young  woman  has  yielded  her  con- 
sent, her  following  her  husband  is  one  of.  the  first 
laws  of  nature.  How  can  you  possibly  leave  me  ?  " 

Cloudlet  replied  :  "  Though  I  am  only  of  the 
lower  classes,  still  I  have  heard  the  sayings  of  the 
Sages  and  am  not  unaware  of  the  Three  Relation- 
ships [29]  that  govern  a  woman's  life.  My  circum- 
stances, however,  are  peculiar  and  different  from 
those  of  others.  I  played  from  earliest  years  with  the 
young  lady  and  was  brought  up  with  her.  All 
thoughts  of  difference  in  station  were  dropped,  and 
we  swore  a  solemn  oath  to  live  and  die  together,  to 
accept  the  fortunes  of  life  with  the  glory  and  shame 
that  might  come  to  us.  My  following  the  lady  is  like 
the  shadow  following  the  body.  When  once  the  body 
disappears,  how  can  the  shadow  play  a  part  alone  ?  " 

Yang  answered  :  "  Your  devotion  to  your  mistress 
is  most  commendable,  but  your  lady's  person  and 
yours  are  different.  While  she  goes  north,  south, 
east,  or  west  as  she  chooses,  your  following  her,  and 
at  the  same  time  attempting  to  render  service  to 
another,  would  break  all  the  laws  that  govern  a 
woman's  existence." 

Cloudlet  said  :  "  Your  words  prove  that  you  do 
not  know  the  mind  of  my  mistress.  She  has  already 
decided  to  remain  with  her  aged  parents.  When  they 
die  she  will  preserve  her  purity,  cut  off  her  hair,  enter 
a  monastery  and  give  herself  up  in  prayer  to  the 
Buddha,  in  the  hope  that  in  the  life  to  come  she  may 

143 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

not  be  born  a  woman.  I,  too,  will  do  just  the  same  as 
she.  If  your  lordship  intends  to  see  me  again,  your 
marriage  gifts  must  go  back  to  the  rooms  of  my  lady. 
If  not,  then  to-day  marks  our  parting  for  life.  Since 
I  have  waited  on  your  lordship  I  have  been  greatly 
loved  and  favoured,  and  I  can  never  repay,  even  in  a 
hundred  years,  a  thousandth  part  of  all  your  kind- 
ness. It  has  turned  out,  however,  different  from  what 
we  had  anticipated,  and  we  are  come  now  to  this  dire 
extremity.  My  one  wish  is,  that  in  the  life  to  come 
I  may  be  your  faithful  dog  or  horse,  and  may  show 
my  devotion  to  you.  Please,  noble  Master,  may  all 
blessing  and  happiness  be  yours."  She  turned  away 
and  wept  bitterly.  A  moment  later  she  stepped  from 
the  verandah,  bowed  twice  and  entered  the  women's 
apartments. 

The  Master's  heart  was  greatly  disturbed,  and  all 
his  thoughts  were  in  confusion.  He  looked  up  at  the 
sky  and  sighed  long  and  deeply  ;  he  clasped  his  hands 
and  drew  hopeless  gasping  breaths,  saying  :  "  I  must 
petition  His  Majesty  with  all  my  heart."  So  he  wrote 
out  his  memorial,  which  was  full  of  earnestness,  and 
ran  thus  : 

"  The  servant  of  your  Imperial  Majesty,  Yang 
So-yoo,  bows  low  and  prostrates  himself  in  the 
dust  as  he  offers  this  memorial.  In  deepest  rever- 
ence he  would  say.  The  Primary  Laws  [30]  are  the 
foundation  stone  on  which  your  Imperial  Majesty's 
Government  rests,  and  marriage  is  the  first  of 
these  laws.  If  once  we  lose  its  right  relation  all 
prosperity  for  the  State  ends,  confusion  and  dis- 
order must  follow.  If  we  fail  to  exercise  care  in 

144 


A  Hopeless  Dilemma 

regard  to  this  fundamental  matter,  the  house 
affected  by  it  will  not  long  endure.  Matters  of  State 
prosperity  rest  here  also.  Therefore  the  Sages,  and 
the  specially  enlightened  ones,  thought  carefully  of 
this  in  the  governing  of  a  country,  and  regarded  the 
correct  observance  of  the  Primal  Laws  as  the  most 
important  thing  of  all,  and  considered  that  in  a  well- 
ordered  house  marriage  was  of  greatest  importance. 
"  Your  humble  servant  had  already  sent  his 
gifts  to  the  daughter  of  Justice  Cheung,  and 
already  had  become  a  member  of  his  household. 
After  this  had  been  accomplished,  he  is,  by  your 
gracious  command,  unexpectedly  and  unworthily 
chosen  as  the  Imperial  son-in-law.  At  first  he  was  in 
doubt,  and  finally  he  was  reduced  to  great  distress 
and  fear.  He  fails  to  see  that  the  decision  of  your 
Imperial  Majesty  and  the  approval  of  the  Govern- 
ment is  in  accord  with  the  established  laws  of 
ceremony.  Even  though  your  humble  subject  had 
not  sent  the  required  gifts,  still  his  social  position  is 
so  inferior  and  his  knowledge  so  circumscribed, 
that  these  alone  would  disqualify  his  being  chosen 
as  the  Imperial  son-in-law.  Also  he  is  already  the 
son-in-law  of  Justice  Cheung,  and  though  the 
whole  Six  Forms  [31]  are  not  yet  completed  it  is  the 
same  as  an  accomplished  marriage.  How  can  Her 
Highness  the  Crown  Princess  ever  bow  to  one  so 
low  as  he,  and  how  can  your  Majesty  let  pass  so 
improper  a  proceeding  without  close  investigation  ; 
or  permit  so  grave  a  breach  of  form  without  search- 
ing inquiry  ?  Alas,  a  secret  order  has  come  forth 
making  null  and  void  that  part  already  accom- 
plished and  commanding  the  return  of  accepted 

145  K 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

marriage  gifts,  a  thing  that  your  humble  servant 
could  never  have  dreamed  possible.  The  petitioner 
fears  that  on  his  account  the  Goyemment  of  your 
Majesty  may  suffer  permanent  loss,  and  the  laws 
that  rule  society  will  be  hopelessly  damaged  ;  that 
in  high  places  truth  will  be  forfeited,  and  that  in 
low  places  violence  and  wrong-doing  may  result. 
He  earnestly  prays  that  your  High  Majesty  will 
stand  by  the  rock  on  which  the  State  rests,  reverse 
the  order  that  has  gone  forth,  and  set  your  humble 
servant's  heart  free." 

The  Emperor  read  the  memorial  and  showed  it  to 
the  Empress  Dowager.  The  Empress  was  very  angry, 
and  ordered  the  arrest  of  Yang  So-yoo,  but  the 
various  officers  of  the  Government  used  their  united 
efforts  against  such  a  proceeding.  The  Emperor  him- 
self said  :  "I  think  it  would  be  going  too  far  to 
arrest  him,  but  the  fact  that  the  Empress  Dowager  is 
so  angry  renders  it  impossible  for  me  to  forgive  him 
out  and  out." 

Several  months  went  by  and  the  Empress  did  not 
recognise  Yang  or  show  any  signs  of  yielding.  Justice 
Cheung,  too,  was  under  a  cloud,  so  that  he  closed  his 
doors  and  saw  no  one. 

At  this  time  the  Tibetans,  with  an  army  of  a 
hundred  thousand  men,  made  a  sudden  invasion  into 
China  proper,  and  took  possession  of  certain  cities 
and  territory.  The  advanced  outposts  had  come  as  far 
as  the  Bridge  of  Wee,  so  that  the  capital  itself  was 
in  great  confusion.  The  Emperor  assembled  his 
ministers  and  conferred  with  them.  They  replied  : 
"  The  soldiers  of  the  capital  do  not  exceed  a  few 

146 


A  Hopeless  Dilemma 

thousands,  and  those  of  the  provinces  are  far  away 
and  out  of  reach.  Your  Majesty  therefore  ought  to 
leave  the  capital  for  a  time,  make  a  wide  circuit  east- 
ward, muster  all  the  soldiers  from  the  various  districts 
and  set  matters  right." 

The  Emperor  could  not  decide,  but  said  :  "  Among 
all  my  retainers  Yang  So-yoo  is  the  most  resourceful 
in  the  way  of  plans  and  proposals,  and  has  excellent 
judgment.  I  have  found  him  the  very  soul  of  wisdom 
heretofore.  The  three  States  that  we  returned  to  order 
and  submission  were  brought  so  by  his  merit."  He 
then  dismissed  the  assembly  and  appealed  to  the 
Empress  Dowager.  "  Let  us  forgive  So-yoo,  call  him 
and  ask  what  plans  he  would  suggest." 

So-yoo  was  called,  and  said  :  "  In  the  capital  are 
the  tombs  of  the  Imperial  ancestors,  and  the  palaces. 
If  your  Majesty  were  to  turn  your  back  on  them,  the 
people  would  be  greatly  disturbed.  At  such  a  moment, 
if  a  powerful  enemy  were  to  enter  the  city,  it  would 
be  exceedingly  hard  ever  to  dislodge  them.  In  the 
days  of  Tai-jong  (627-650  a.d.),  the  Tibetans,  along 
with  the  Mohammedan  tribes,  marshalled  a  million 
men  or  so  and  attacked  the  capital.  At  that  time  the 
forces  in  the  city  were  not  equal  to  the  present,  but 
with  his  cavalry.  Prince  Kwak  Cha-heui  drove  them 
off  and  defeated  them.  My  powers  and  gifts  are  not 
in  any  sense  equal  to  those  of  Kwak's,  but  with  a  few 
thousand  good  soldiers  I  can  settle  accounts  with 
these  invaders,  and  so  repay  a  little  the  great  favours 
accorded  me  by  your  Imperial  Majesty." 

The  Emperor  at  once  appointed  Yang  as  Generalis- 
simo ,  and  allowed  him  to  set  out  from  the  barracks  with 
thirty  thousand  troops  to  attack  the  Tibetan  army. 

147 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Yang  said  the  word  of  farewell,  drew  up  his  army 
and  encamped  near  the  Bridge  of  Wee.  He  drove  back 
the  vaniguard  of  the  enemy,  and  took  prisoner  Prince 
Choa-won,  so  that  the  enemy  were  thrown  into  con- 
fusion and  many  troops  hid  therriselves  or  ran  away. 
He  followed  up  this  advantage  at  once  and  fought 
three  battles,  beating  the  enemy  badly,  killing  about 
thirty  thousand  men  and  taking  eight  thousand  horses. 
From  this  place  he  sent  a  memorial  of  his  victory  to 
the  Emperor. 

His  Majesty  was  greatly  pleased,  ordered  his  return, 
and  appointed  for  each  general  gifts  according  to  his 
merit. 

The  message  sent  by  His  Excellency  ran  thus  :  "  I 
have  heard  it  said  that  the  Imperial  troops  are  ever  to 
be  depended  on.  I  have  heard  it  also  said  that  troops 
who  always  win  think  lightly  of  the  enemy,  and  are 
not  anxious  to  take  advantage  of  special  moments  of 
weakness  or  hunger.  This  is  a  mistake.  I  cannot  say 
that  the  enemy  is  not  strong,  or  that  they  are  not  well 
equipped  in  arms.  They  have  rebelled  against  their 
sovereign,  and  we  ought  to  await  only  the  moment  of 
their  greatest  disadvantage  to  make  our  final  attack. 
Their  condition  grows  less  favourable  for  them 
daily.  It  says  in  the  Book  of  Wars  :  '  Labour  hard  to 
strike  the  enemy  in  the  moment  of  his  hardest  labour.' 
One  who  fails  to  conquer  then  will  fail  simply 
from  lack  of  skill.  Already  the  enemy  is  broken  and 
on  the  run.  Their  weakness  is  evident.  All  the  dis- 
tricts along  the  way  have  abundant  provision  piled 
up  for  us,  so  that  we  have  no  fear.  The  wide  plains 
and  broad  valleys  are  at  our  service,  and  the  enemy 
has  no  place  in  which  to  pitch  his  camp.  If  we  follow 


A  Hopeless  Dilemma 

them  sharply  with  fast  cavalry  we  can  make  them 
completely  ours.  But  if  your  Majesty  rests  now  with 
a  partial  victory  our  best  opportunity  will  be  lost. 
To  cease  from  the  attack  is  not  good  policy  in  your 
servant's  opinion.  My  wish,  with  your  gracious  per- 
mission, is  to  set  the  troops  at  once  in  motion,  follow 
into  the  enemy's  camp,  burn  them  out,  and  make 
sure  that  not  another  armed  man  will  cross  the 
border,  or  another  arrow  be  shot  at  us,  and  so  remove 
from  your  Majesty  all  anxiety." 

The  Emperor  read  this  memorial  and  was  greatly 
struck  by  the  wisdom  of  it.  Hfe  advanced  Yang  to  the 
rank  of  Chief  Commissioner  and  Minister  of  War. 
He  gave  him  his  own  sword,  bow  and  arrows,  em- 
broidered belt,  white  flag  and  gilded  battle-axe,  and 
wrote  out  a  command  mustering  further  troops  from 
north,  east,  and  west. 

Yang  So-yoo  received  this,  bowed  his  thanks 
toward  the  palace,  selected  a  propitious  day,  made 
the  necessary  sacrifices  and  then  set  out.  His  disposi- 
tion of  the  army  was  according  to  the  ancient  Six 
Laws  [32],  and  his  arrangement  of  the  camp  accord- 
ing to  the  Eight  Diagrams  [33].  All  were  under  strict 
discipline.  Like  rushing  water  they  went  forth  and 
straight  as  the  splitting  bamboo.  In  a  few  months  the 
lost  territory  was  recovered  and  Yang's  main  forces 
had  arrived  at  the  foot  of  the  Chok-sol  Mountains.  A 
strange  sign  occurred  there.  A  great  whirlwind 
appeared  in  front  of  his  horse  and  broke  into  the 
camp  and  passed  by.  On  this  the  Master  cast  the 
horoscope  and  learned  that  the  enemy  would  attack 
his  forces  with  great  vigour,  but  that  in  the  end  he 
would  be  victorious. 

149 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

He  pitched  his  camp  under  the  lee  of  a  mountain, 
and  scattered  about  it  caltrops  and  "  Spanish  riders  " 
to  keep  off  the  enemy.  At  this  time  the  General  was 
seated  in  his  tent  with  a  lighted  candle  before  him, 
reading  certain  military  dispatches,  while  the  guards 
outside  had  already  announced  the  third  watch 
of  the  night.  Suddenly  a  cold  wind  extinguished  the 
light  of  the  candle  and  an  eerie  chill  filled  the  tent. 
At  this  moment  a  maiden  stepped  in  upon  him  from 
the  upper  air,  and  stood  before  him  with  a  glittering 
double-edged  sword  in  her  hand.  The  General, 
guessing  her  to  be  an  assassin,  did  not  quail  before 
her,  but  stood  his  ground  sternly  and  boldly  asked  : 
"  What  kind  of  creature  are  you,  and  what  is  your 
intention  coming  thus  into  the  camp  by  night  ?  " 

She  said  in  reply  :  "I  am  under  command  of  King 
Chan-bo  of  Tibet  to  have  thy  head." 

The  General  laughed.  "  The  superior  man,"  said 
he,  "  never  fears  to  die.  Take  my  head,  will  you  not, 
and  go  ?  " 

Then  she  threw  down  her  sword,  bowed  low, 
and  said  in  reply :  "  My  noble  lord,  do  not  be  anxious ; 
how  could  your  servant  ever  dare  to  cause  you  fear  ?  " 

The  General  then  raised  her  up,  saying  :  "  You 
have  come  into  the  camp  with  a  sword  girded  at  your 
side,  and  now  you  say  you  will  not  harm  me.  Pray, 
what  is  your  meaning  ?  " 

"  I  would  like  to  tell  you,"  said  she,  "  all  my  past 
history,  but  I  cannot  do  so  in  a  moment." 

Then  the  General  asked  her  to  sit  down  and  inquired 
of  her :  "  Your  ladyship,  not  fearing  the  terror  of  my 
forces,  has  come  seeking  me.  There  must  be  some 
beneficent  purpose  in  your  mind  ;  tell  me,  please." 

ISO 


A  Hopeless  Dilemma 

The  lady  made  reply  :  "  Though  I  am  called  an 
assassin,  yet  really  I  have  no  heart  for  anything  of 
the  kind.  I  will  tell  your  lordship  exactly  what  my 
mind  meditates."  She  got  up,  lit  the  lamp  again, 
and  came  close  to  the  general  and  sat  down.  He 
looked  at  her.  Her  cloudlike  hair  was  fastened  with  a 
golden  pin.  She  wore  a  narrow-sleeved  outer  coat 
with  a  military  jacket  underneath,  embroidered  with 
stone  and  bamboo  designs.  She  wore  phcenix-tail 
shoes  and  at  her  belt  hung  a  dragon  sword.  Her  face 
was  bright  like  rose  petals  with  dew  upon  them.  She 
opened  her  lips,  which  were  red  as  the  cherry,  and 
spoke  slowly  in  tones  like  the  oriole,  saying  :  "  Your 
servant  came  originally  from  Yang-joo  county, 
where  for  generations  we  have  been  subjects  of  the 
Tangs.  I  lost  my  parents  when  young,  and  became 
a  disciple  of  a  woman  who  was  a  great  master  in 
sword-drill ;  she  taught  me  her  art.  My  name  is  Sim 
Nyo-yon,  commonly  spoken  of  as  the  Swallow. 
Three  years  after  learning  the  science  of  the  sword, 
^  learned  also  that  of  metamorphosis — to  ride  the 
winds,  to  follow  the  lightnings,  and  in  an  instant  to 
travel  a  thousand  li.  Several  of  us  were  taught,  and 
we  were  all  about  alike  in  our  sword  skill,  but  when 
the  teacher  had  some  special  enemy  to  destroy  or 
some  wicked  person  to  kill,  she  invariably  sent  one 
of  the  others  to  do  it.  She  never  sent  me.  I  was  angry 
at  this,  and  asked  :  '  We  all  alike  have  followed  our 
teacher  and  have  been  taught  the  same  lessons,  yet  I 
alone  have  made  no  return  to  you  for  your  kindness. 
Is  it  because  my  skill  is  poor  and  I  could  not  be 
trusted  to  carry  out  the  will  of  my  mistress  that  you 
fail  to  send  me  ?  ' 

151 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

"  The  teacher  then  said :  *  You  are  not  of  our  race. 
Later  you  will  hear  the  truth  and  be  made  perfect.  If 
I  were  to  send  you  as  I  do  the  others,  to  kill  and  to 
destroy,  it  would  for  ever  mar  your  virtue.  For  this 
reason  I  do  not  send  you.' 

"  I  asked  again,  saying  :  '  If  that  be  so,  then  of 
what  use  is  my  practising  sword  drill  ?  ' 

"  The  teacher  replied  :  '  Your  appointed  mate  lives 
in  the  Tang  kingdom,  and  he  is  a  great  and  noted 
lord.  You  are  in  a  foreign  land  and  there  is  no  other 
way  by  which  you  can  meet  him.  By  means  of  my 
teaching  you  this  insignificant  craft  you  may  come 
face  to  face  with  your  special  affinity.  In  your  search 
you  will  enter  a  military  camp  of  a  million  men,  and 
among  the  swords  and  spears  you  will  find  him.  The 
Emperor  of  the  Tangs,  I  know,  is  to  send  a  great 
general  against  the  Tibetans,  and  King  Chan-bo  has 
issued  a  proclamation  calling  for  assassins  who  are 
ready  to  destroy  this  appointed  leader.  Do  not  miss 
the  opportunity  to  descend  from  the  hills.  Go  at 
once  to  Tibet  and  show  your  skill  with  the  swords- 
men of  that  country.  On  the  one  side  you  can  save 
them  from  the  danger  that  the  Tangs  threaten,  and 
on  the  other  you  can  meet  your  Master.' 

"  I  received  the  commands  of  my  teacher  and  went 
at  once  to  Tibet,  tore  off  the  notice  that  I  found  on 
the  city  gate,  and  carried  it  to  the  king.  He  called  me 
and  allowed  me  to  try  my  skill  with  others.  In  a  few 
minutes  I  had  struck  off  the  top-knots  of  more  than 
ten  persons.  The  king  was  greatly  delighted  and 
chose  me,  saying  :  *  When  you  bring  me  the  head 
of  the  general  of  the  Tangs,  I  will  make  you  my 
queen.'  Now  that  I  have  met  your  Excellency  I  find 

152 


A  Hopeless  Dilemma 

that  my  teacher's  words  have  come  true,  and  my 
desire  is  to  join  those  who  wait  on  you  and  share  a 
part  in  your  life.  Will  you  consent  ?  " 

The  General,  greatly  surprised  and  delighted, 
answered  :  "  Your  ladyship  has  already  spared  this 
head  of  mine  that  was  doomed,  and  now  you  wish  to 
serve  me.  How  shall  I  repay  you  ?  My  wish  is  to  bind 
you  to  me  by  the  endless  contract  of  marriage." 

Thus  they  plighted  their  troth.  Around  the  tent  the 
glitter  of  swords  and  spears  served  for  candle  light, 
and  the  sound  of  cymbals  for  the  festal  harp.  This 
marriage  hall  within  the  warlike  enclosure  was  a 
happier  one  than  was  ever  that  of  shimmering  silks 
or  embroidered  screens. 

From  this  day  forth  the  General  fell  a  victim  to 
the  fair  one  and  took  no  account  of  officers  or  men. 
Days  passed  thus,  when  Sim  the  Swallow  said  :  "  A 
military  camp  is  no  place  for  women.  I  fear  that  I 
shall  hinder  the  movement  of  the  troops,  so  I  must 

The  General  replied :  "  But  your  ladyship  is  not  a 
common  woman  ;  I  hope  that  you  will  stay  and 
teach  me  some  special  craft  or  science  that  pertains 
to  war  so  as  to  defeat  these  rebels.  Why  should  you 
leave  me  ?  " 

"  Your  lordship,"  said  Swallow,  "  does  not  need 
me,  but  with  your  power  will  easily  destroy  the 
haunts  of  the  rebel.  Why  should  you  fear  ?  Though 
I  came  forth  by  order  of  my  superior,  yet  I  have  not 
said  my  farewell  to  her,  so  I  shall  go  back  to  my 
teacher  in  the  hills  and  await  your  return  to  the 
capital.  By  and  by  I  shall  meet  you  there." 

The  General  asked :  "  After  you  are  gone,  in  case 

153 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Chan-bo  sends  another  assassin,  how  shall  I  defend 
myself  ?  " 

Swallow  said  :  "  Though  there  are  many  assassins 
they  are  not  my  equals,  and  if  your  lordship  accepts 
me  as  your  devoted  one  all  danger  is  dispelled." 
She  then  felt  at  her  belt,  drew  forth  a  jewel,  and  gave 
it  to  him,  saying  :  "  The  name  of  this  is  Myo-ye-wan, 
a  pin  that  King  Chan-bo  wore  in  his  head-dress. 
Please  send  a  messenger  to  him  with  it  saying  I  shall 
return  no  more." 

The  General  inquired  further  :  "  Have  you  no 
other  matters  to  suggest  ?  " 

Swallow  said  :  "  On  your  way  ahead  you  will  pass 
a  place  called  Pan-sa-gok  where  good  drinking- 
water  will  fail  you.  Make  all  haste  to  dig  wells  when 
there,  so  that  the  soldiers  may  not  die  of  thirst." 

He  desired  to  ask  further  questions,  but  Swallow 
gave  a  leap  into  the  air  and  was  gone .  The  General  then 
called  his  officers  to  him  and  told  them  of  her  coming. 
With  one  accord  they  said  :  "  Your  Excellency's 
luck  is  like  that  of  the  gods,  and  your  power  to 
affright  the  rebels  is  by  means  of  angels  who  come 
to  help  you." 


154 


Chapter  IX 
Among  Mermaids  and  Mermen 

GENERAL  YANG  at  once  sent  an  officer 
into  the  camp  of  the  enemy  to  restore  the 
pin  to  King  Chan-bo.  The  army  was  then 
set  in  motion  and  moved  forward  till  it  reached  Tai- 
san,  where  the  valley  was  exceedingly  narrow  with 
room  only  for  horsemen  to  pass  in  single  file.  Circling 
a  wall  of  rock  they  skirted  the  high  bank  of  a  river. 
In  a  long  thin  line  of  procession  they  went  like  fishes 
in  a  stream,  till  after  some  hundred  li  they  found  a 
fairly  roomy  place  and  there  pitched  their  camp  and 
rested.  The  soldiers  were  greatly  worn  by  thirst 
and  could  find  no  drinking  water.  There  was  beneath 
the  mountain  a  large  lake  toward  which  they  struggled. 
Scarcely  had  they  tasted  of  it,  however,  than  their 
bodies  turned  green  and  they  became  dumb.  Tremb- 
ling seized  them,  and  the  expression  of  their  faces 
grew  fixed  as  in  death. 

The  General  was  greatly  distressed  and  went  him- 
self to  look  at  the  lake,  the  water  of  which  was  green 
and  the  depth  of  it  beyond  his  power  to  fathom.  A 
cold,  forbidding  breath  seemed  to  issue  from  it  like 
the  frosts  of  autumn.  Then  he  remembered,  and 
said  :  "  This  must  be  the  place  that  Sim  Nyo-yon 
referred  to  as  Pan-sa-gok."  He  urged  those  soldiers 
who  were  able  to  do  so  to  dig  wells,  and  though  they 
dug  in  several  hundred  places  to  the  depth  of  ten  kil 
and  more,  not  a  drop  of  water  was  to  be  found. 
The  General  determined  at  once  to  miove  his  camp 

155 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

to  another  place,  when  suddenly  the  sound  of  drums 
was  heard  from  behind  the  mountain.  The  earth 
shook  and  trembled  and  the  valleys  echoed.  Evidently 
the  enemy  had  blocked  the  way  in  this  dangerous 
defile  and  had  cut  off  all  means  of  retreat. 

Thus  were  the  Imperial  forces  dying  of  thirst,  and 
menaced  in  front  and  to  the  rear.  The  General  sat  in 
his  tent  vainly  thinking  by  what  means  he  might 
extricate  himself  from  the  difficulty.  In  his  distress 
and  weariness  he  leant  on  his  desk  and  fell  asleep. 
Suddenly  a  sweet  fragrance  seemed  to  envelop  the 
camp  and  two  maidens  came  before  him.  Their 
faces  were  wonderful,  and  he  knew  that  if  they  were 
not  fairies  they  must  be  of  a  certainty  disembodied 
spirits. 

Said  they  :  "  We  have  a  message  from  our  Lady 
Superior  to  your  Excellency  ;  please  condescend  to 
come  with  us  to  our  lowly  place  of  dwelling." 

The  General  asked  :  "  Pray,  who  is  your  mistress, 
and  where  does  she  live  ?  " 

They  said  :  **  Our  mistress  is  the  younger  daughter 
of  the  Tong-jong  Dragon  King.  She  has  left  the 
palace  for  a  little  and  is  living  here." 

The  General  replied :  "  But  the  place  of  residence 
of  the  Dragon  King  [34]  is  underneath  the  water  and 
I  am  but  a  man  of  mortal  race.  By  what  possible  law 
can  my  body  descend  to  your  depths  ?  " 

The  maidens  made  answer  :  "  We  have  spirit 
horses  tethered  outside  the  gate.  If  your  Excellency 
will  but  mount  one  of  these  you  will  go  there  without 
trouble.  The  Water  Palace  is  not  far  off,  and  there  is 
no  difficulty  coimected  with  the  journey." 

Yang  then  followed  the  maidens  to  the  entrance 

156 


Among  Mermaids  and  Mermen 

outside  the  camp,  and  found  there  a  score  or  more 
of  servants  of  pecuUar  appearance,  wearing  strange 
dresses.  They  took  hold  of  him  and  set  him  upon  his 
horse.  The  creature  went  skimming  along,  its  feet 
never  touching  the  ground,  and  suddenly  they  were 
at  the  Water  Palace.  The  palace  was  high,  massive, 
and  beautifully  built,  as  a  place  where  a  king  dwells 
should  be.  Guards  with  fish  heads  and  beards  like 
the  whale  stood  before  the  entrance.  Several  wait- 
ing-maids came  from  within,  opened  the  gate  and 
led  the  general  to  the  throne  room.  In  the  hall  of 
audience  there  was  a  white  marble  seat  facing  south, 
and  the  maids  persuaded  Yang  to  come  forward  and 
be  seated  there.  A  silken  rug  covered  the  floor  and 
led  off  toward  the  inner  chambers.  In  a  little,  a  dozen 
or  so  of  waiting  women  accompanied  a  fair  lady  from 
the  apartment  to  the  left  and  conducted  her  to  the 
centre  of  the  audience  hall.  Her  appearance  was  very 
beautiful,  and  her  dress  more  splendid  than  words 
can  describe.  One  of  the  ladies  came  forward  and 
said  :  "  The  daughter  of  the  Dragon  King  desires 
to  meet  General  Yang." 

The  General  gave  a  start  and  attempted  to  make  his 
escape,  but  they  took  him  by  the  arms  and  held  him 
prisoner,  while  they  made  him  bow  four  times  before 
this  daughter  of  the  Dragon  King.  Clinking  of  gem 
ornaments  made  sweet  music  for  the  occasion,  while 
the  odour  of  soft  perfume  greeted  the  nostrils. 

The  General  invited  her  up  to  the  throne  seat 
beside  him,  but  the  Dragon  King's  daughter  declined 
and  instead  caused  a  small  mat  to  be  spread  on  which 
she  sat.  Said  he  :  "I  am  but  a  being  from  among 
mortal  men,  while  your  ladyship  is  a  daughter  of  the 

157 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

world  of  spirits.  Why  should  you  prepare  for  me  so 
elaborate  and  extravagant  a  reception  ?  " 

The  Dragon  King's  daughter  said  :  "I  am  Pak 
Neung-pa,  the  youngest  child  of  the  King  of  Tong- 
jong.  When  I  was  bom  my  father  was  having  an 
audience  with  God  Almighty,  and  there  he  met  Chang 
Jin-in,  of  whom  he  inquired  concerning  my  future 
fortune.  Jin-in  took  my  birth  characters  and  un- 
folded them,  saying  :  '  This  daughter,  in  essence,  is 
one  of  the  fairies,  but  because  of  sin  that  she  has 
committed  she  has  been  sent  into  exile  and  has  be- 
come your  child.  She  will  later  take  on  human  form 
and  be  the  wife  of  a  famous  and  gifted  man.  She  will 
enjoy  great  riches  and  honour,  and  all  the  delights  of 
eye  and  ear.  In  the  end  she  will  return  to  the  Buddha 
and  become  a  priestess  of  the  priestesses.  We  dragon 
folk  who  have  merman  ancestors  and  dwell  in  the 
midst  of  the  sea  count  it  great  glory  to  be  born  into 
human  form,  or  to  arrive  at  the  state  of  the  fairy  or 
the  Buddha.  For  this  we  all  long.  My  eldest  sister  at 
first  became  a  daughter-in-law  of  the  Dragon  King  of 
Kyong-soo,  but  because  she  was  unhappy  in  her 
marriage  the  two  homes  were  rendered  unfriendly 
and  she  married  again  Prince  Yoo-jin,  where  her 
relations  honoured  her  and  all  her  attendants  rever- 
enced her.  As  for  myself,  I  expect  by  and  by  to  meet 
my  appointed  lord,  and  even  to  surpass  my  sister  in 
glory  and  honour.' 

"  When  my  father  heard  what  Jin-in  said,  he 
loved  and  prized  me  more  than  ever,  and  all  the 
waiting-women  of  the  palace  treated  me  as  an  angel 
visitor  from  heaven.  When  I  grew  up,  Oh-hyon,  the 
son  of  the  Dragon  King  of  Nam-hai,  who  had  heard 

158 


» 

V'X 

±  ^^ 

li% 

A, 

1^^ 

1 

^ijl 

■h  \M- 

* 

4% 

^ 

'A 

The  Dragon  King  Defeated :  Among  the  Mermaids 


Among  Mermaids  and  Mermen 

of  my  history  and  attainments,  asked  marriage  with 
me  of  my  father,  and  because  we  of  Tong-jong  are 
under  the  authority  of  Nam-hai,  my  father  dared 
not  refuse  but  went  instead  and  explained  what  Jin-in 
had  said,  asking  permission  to  withhold  his  consent. 
For  this  the  Dragon  King  on  behalf  of  his  proud  son 
told  my  father  that  he  had  deceived  him,  severely 
reprimanded  him,  and  became  most  insistent  in  the 
matter  of  the  marriage.  I  reasoned  to  myself  :  '  If  I 
am  with  my  parents  I  shall  not  escape  dishonour,  so 
there  is  nothing  else  for  me  to  do  but  to  make  my 
escape.'  This  I  did,  breaking  through  thorns  and 
briars  and  taking  refuge  by  myself  in  this  unknown 
place.  Here  I  am  living  poorly  and  in  fear  while  the 
persecution  on  the  part  of  the  King  of  Nam-hai  lasts. 
My  parents  said  :  '  Our  daughter  does  not  wish  your 
son  but  has  run  away  and  hidden  herself.'  The 
foolish  boy,  however,  regardless  of  my  sufferings, 
gathered  an  army  and  came  and  tried  to  take  me 
prisoner.  My  cries  of  despair  moved  heaven  and 
earth  so  that  the  waters  of  the  lake  changed  and 
became  cold  as  ice  and  dark  as  hell.  Thus  the  troops 
have  not  dared  to  enter  it,  and  I  have  been  preserved 
and  have  escaped  with  my  life.  To-day  I  ventured  to 
invite  your  Excellency  to  come  to  this  humble  home 
of  mine,  not  only  to  tell  you  how  I  am  circum- 
stanced, but  also  to  consider  how  the  Imperial  troops 
have  long  suffered  want  and  lacked  water,  no  springs 
appearing  in  the  wells  they  dig.  The  work  of  digging 
and  delving  is  a  great  labour,  and  though  you  dig 
through  the  whole  mountain  a  thousand  cubits  and 
more,  no  water  will  be  forthcoming.  Human  power 
is  not  equal  to  it.  The  original  name  of  this  lake  was 

159 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Chong-su-tam,  Bright  Water  Lake,  It  was  wonder- 
fully sweet  then,  but  since  I  have  come  here  to  live, 
the  flavour  has  changed  and  all  who  drink  of  it  fall 
ill,  so  that  the  name  now  is  Paik-yong-tam,  White 
Dragon  Lake.  Since  your  Excellency  has  accepted  my 
invitation  my  soul  has  found  a  place  of  def)endence, 
like  spring  coming  back  to  the  shaded  hill.  I  put 
myself  under  your  care  and  my  life  into  your  keeping. 
Your  anxieties  become  my  anxieties,  so  I  shall  use 
all  my  powers  to  give  you  aid.  From  now  on  the 
flavour  of  the  water  will  be  sweet  as  formerly,  no 
harm  will  come  to  the  soldiers  who_  drink  of  it,  and 
those  who  are  ill  will  recover." 

The  General  said :  "  Now  that  I  have  heard  your 
ladyship's  words,  I  realise  that  people  are  mated  in 
heaven,  that  the  devils  know  of  it,  and  that  the 
decision  of  the  Grandmother  of  the  Moon  [35]  is 
something  for  which  it  is  worth  casting  lots.  All 
your  wishes  find  their  complement  in  mine." 

The  Dragon  King's  daughter  said :  "  I  have  already 
made  promise  to  you  of  this  humble  body,  but,  in 
short,  there  are  three  reasons  why  I  ought  not  to  be 
mated  to  your  Excellency.  The  first  is,  I  have  not 
yet  told  my  parents  ;  the  second,  that  I  should 
accompany  you  only  after  I  have  changed  this  form 
of  mine.  I  still  have  the  scales  and  fishy  odours  of  the 
mermaid,  with  fins  that  would  defile  my  lord's 
presence.  The  third  reason  is  that  the  messengers  of 
the  son  of  Nam-hai  are  all  about  spying  in  every  nook 
and  corner.  It  would  be  sure  to  arouse  their  anger 
and  to  cause  disaster  and  no  end  of  trouble.  Let  your 
Excellency  retire  to  the  camp  as  soon  as  possible, 
destroy  the  enemy,  win  great  renown,  and  return  to 

160 


Among  Mermaids  and  Mermen 

the  capital  singing  your  song  of  victory.  Later,  your 
servant  will  pick  up  her  skirts,  emerge  from  the 
waters,  and  follow  you  to  your  home  in  the  great 
city." 

The  General  said :  "  Though  your  ladyship's 
words  are  most  acceptable,  it  seems  to  me  that  your 
being  here  is  not  only  to  preserve  your  own  honour, 
but  because  the  Dragon  King  desired  you  to  await  my 
coming  and  to  please  me.  Your  ladyship  was  a  fairy 
in  your  former  life,  and  therefore  you  have  a  spiritual 
nature.  Between  men  and  disembodied  spirits 
intercourse  may  be  carried  on  without  wrong  being 
done,  then  why  should  I  have  any  special  aversion 
to  fins  and  scales  ?  Though  I  have  no  special 
natural  gifts,  still  I  am  under  orders  from  His  Im- 
perial Majesty  with  a  million  of  troops  at  my  com- 
mand, with  the  wild  winds  for  guide  and  the  spirit 
of  the  sea  for  my  protector.  If  I  can  but  meet  this 
wilful  child  of  the  South  Sea  he  will  be  but  an 
insect  for  me  to  crush.  If  he  does  not  at  once 
repent  and  cease  from  his  foolishness,  I  shall  un- 
sheathe my  sword  and  finish  him.  We  have  met  thus 
happily  to-night,  why  should  we  miss  the  oppor- 
tunity to  seal  our  happy  contract  ? "  So  they  swore 
the  oath  of  marriage,  and  found  great  delight  in  each 
other. 

Before  the  day  dawned  fully  a  sound  of  thunder 
was  heard,  so  that  the  Crystal  Palace  shook  and 
trembled.  Then  the  daughter  of  the  Dragon  King  gave 
a  start  and  arose,  while  the  palace  women  in  intense 
excitement  came  to  her  and  said  that  a  fearful  dis- 
aster had  overtaken  them.  The  Crown  Prince  of  Nam- 
hai  had  brought  a  vast  army  to  the  foot  of  the  hills, 

l6l  L 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

had  pitched  his  camp,  and  now  demanded  that  they 
try  the  fierce  odds  of  battle. 

The  General,  in  anger,  said :  "  Mad  creature,  how 
can  he  dare  so  to  venture  ?  "  He  shook  his  sleeves 
and  arose,  sprang  forth  to  the  shores  of  the  waters, 
where  he  found  that  the  Nam-hai  soldiers  were 
already  encircling  the  walls  of  the  Paik-yong-tam 
with  a  wild  clamour  of  noise,  and  causing  noxious 
odours  to  arise  on  all  sides.  The  so-called  Prince 
Imperial  on  horseback  rode  swiftly  out  of  the  camp 
and  shouted  :  "  Who  are  you  who  would  dare  to 
steal  another  man's  wife  ?  I  swear  I  will  no  longer 
live  on  the  same  earth  with  you." 

The  General  mounted  his  charger,  laughed,  and 
said  :  "  The  daughter  of  the  Dragon  King  of  Tong- 
jong  and  I  have  been  mated  to  one  another  from  a 
former  existence,  and  it  is  so  recorded  in  the  palace 
of  the  great  God,  as  Jin-in  well  knoweth.  I  am  but 
carrying  out  the  will  of  heaven  and  doing  as  I  have  been 
directed.  A  contemptible  creature  of  a  merman  like 
you  to  dare  to  affront  me  thus  !  "  He  commanded  his 
troops  to  form  in  order  and  to  advance  to  the  attack. 

The  Prince  Imperial,  in  fury,  called  together  all  the 
fishes  of  the  sea  ;  a  carp,  the  general  of  the  forces  ;  a 
turtle,  his  chief  of  staff.  He  aroused  them  to  a  pitch 
of  wild  enthusiasm  so  that  they  advanced  with  un- 
exampled bravery. 

The  General  met  them  by  a  counter  sword  attack 
and  raised  aloft  his  white  stone  whip.  In  a  moment, 
thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  were  crushed  be- 
neath the  blow.  Pulverised  scales  and  fins  bedewed 
the  earth.  The  Prince  himself  received  two  or  three 
spear  thrusts,  so  that  power  to  metamorphose  departed 

162 


Among  Mermaids  and  Mermen 

from  him,  and  finally  he  was  captured,  taken  prisoner, 
bound,  and  brought  before  the  charger  of  the  General. 
Greatly  pleased,  Yang  sounded  a  bugle  call  to  his 
troops  to  retire,  when  the  gate  guards  brought  him 
word,  saying  :  "  The  lady  of  Paik-yong-tam  is  now 
before  the  camp  entrance  and  wishes  to  congratulate 
your  Excellency  on  so  great  a  victory." 

Courtiers  were  sent  forth  to  show  her  in.  She  pre- 
sented her  distinguished  compliments,  and  added  a 
thousand  measures  of  wine  and  ten  thousand  head 
of  cattle  to  feast  the  soldiers.  They  ate  to  the  full,  and 
were  a  hundred  times  more  than  ever  incited  to  deeds 
of  bravery. 

General  Yang  then  sat  side  by  side  with  the 
daughter  of  the  Dragon  King  and  ordered  that  the 
Prince  Imperial  of  Nam-hai  be  brought  before  them. 
In  a  commanding  voice  he  addressed  him  thus  :  "I 
am  under  orders  from  the  Emperor  to  beat  down 
rebellion  in  all  quarters  of  the  State,  and  to  put  far 
from  us  devils  who  disobey  Imperial  commands.  You, 
however,  a  little  child,  ignorant  of  what  is  right, 
desire  to  oppose  the  troops  and  thus  to  die  by  suicide. 
I  have  a  sword  called  Eui-song-sang,  the  same  sharp 
knife  with  which  I  killed  the  King  of  Kyong-hai. 
With  it  I  ought  to  cut  off  your  head  to  prove  the  truth 
of  my  words,  but  your  dwelling  in  Nam-hai  gives 
rain  to  a  wide  world  of  men  and  is  for  that  reason 
deserving  of  merit .  I  shall  therefore  forgive  you .  Cease 
from  your  past  evil  ways,  and  do  not  sin  any  more 
against  this  woman."   So  he  sent  him  off. 

The  prince  was  so  overcome  that  he  was  unable  to 
draw  a  long  breath.  He  bowed  low  and  ran  for  his  life 
like  a  rat  that  desires  to  hide  itself. 

163 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Suddenly  a  bright  light  arose  from  the  south-east 
and  a  red  cloud  shone  forth  that  sparkled  with  varie- 
gated colours.  Flags  and  battle-axe  insignia  became 
visible  in  the  upper  air,  and  an  angel  dressed  in  scarlet 
bowed  low  and  said  :  "  The  Dragon  Bang  of  Tong- 
jong,  learning  that  General  Yang  had  scattered  the 
troops  of  Nam-hai  and  saved  the  princess  from  dis- 
honour, desired  to  come  himself  to  the  camp  and 
offer  his  congratulations,  but  being  held  by  his  office 
and  unable  to  leave  of  his  own  free-will,  he  has 
arranged  instead  a  great  feast  in  honour  of  the 
General  and  now  invites  him  to  come.  Please  will 
your  Excellency  condescend  to  follow  me  ?  He  com- 
mands also  that  the  princess  attend  us." 

General  Yang  said  :  "  Although  the  enemy  is 
driven  off  they  still  have  their  camp  close  by.  Tong- 
jong  is  thousands  of  miles  from  here.  It  would  take 
many  days  to  go  and  come.  How  can  one  thus  in 
command  of  troops  go  so  far  away  ?  " 

The  angel  said  :  "  The  light  dragons  are  hitched 
to  the  sky- wagon  and  are  ready.  Half  a  day  will  be 
quite  sufficient  for  you  to  go  and  return." 


164 


Chapter  X 
Humble  Submission 

THE  General  then  mounted  the  dragon-car 
with  the  Dragon  King's  daughter  beside 
him  ;  a  wonderful  wind  blew  the  wheels 
and  they  whirled  away  up  into  mid  air  beyond  the 
clouds.  He  did  not  know  how  close  lay  the  outskirts 
of  heaven,  or  how  many  miles  from  earth  they  were. 
A  veil  of  mist  like  a  white  umbrella  covered  all  the 
sphere.  Little  by  little  they  descended  till  they  came 
to  Tong-jong.  The  King  had  come  out  a  long  distance 
to  meet  his  guest  with  every  possible  form  of  cere- 
mony and  every  evidence  of  love  for  him  as  a  son-in- 
law.  He  bowed,  and  after  having  made  Yang  mount 
the  highest  seat  of  honour,  prepared  for  him  a  great 
feast.  The  King  himself  raised  his  glass  and  con- 
gratulated Yang,  saying  :  "  I  am  a  man  of  few  and 
feeble  gifts,  with  but  little  means  at  my  disposal,  not 
able  even  to  make  my  own  daughter  prosperous  and 
happy.  By  means  of  your  Excellency's  surpassing  skill 
we  have  taken  prisoner  this  proud  upstart,  and  have 
saved  my  daughter's  honour.  I  greatly  desire  to  repay 
this  kindness  high  as  heaven  and  deep  as  the  nether 
sea." 

The  General  said :  "It  was  all  due  to  the  incom- 
parable strength  and  prowess  of  His  linperial 
Majesty.  What  cause  have  you  to  thank  me  ?  " 

They  drank  till  their  hearts  were  merry  and  then 
the  King  called  for  music ;  and  splendid  music  it  was, 
arranged  ill  mystic  harmony,  unlike  the  music  of  the 

165 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

earth.  A  thousand  giants,  each  bearing  sword  and 
spear,  beat  monster  drums.  Six  rows  of  dancing-girls 
dressed  in  phoenix  garb  and  wearing  bright  moon 
ornaments,  gracefully  shook  their  long  flowing  sleeves 
and  danced  in  pairs,  a  thrilling  and  entrancing  sight. 

The  General  asked  :  "  What  tune  is  this  to  which 
they  dance  ?  " 

The  Dragon  King  said  :  "In  ancient  days  this 
tune  did  not  exist  in  the  Water  Palace.  My  eldest 
daughter,  as  you  know,  was  married  to  tiie  Prince 
Imperial  of  Kyong-ha,  and  according  to  the  writings 
of  Dr.  Yoo  in  *  The  Shepherd  and  the  Sheep,'  was 
found  destined  to  hardship.  She  fell  a  victim  to 
oppression  and  ill-treatment,  and  my  younger  brother 
fought  and  defeated  the  King  of  Kyong-ha  and  saved 
her.  The  musicians  of  the  palace  invented  this  tune, 
calling  it '  The  Defeat  of  the  Enemy.'  Now,  however, 
that  your  Excellency  has  overcome  the  Prince  of 
Nam-hai  and  have  caused  the  father  to  meet  his 
daughter  once  more,  the  name  of  the  tune  has  been 
changed  to  '  The  Song  of  the  General's  Victory.'  " 

Yang  asked  again  :  "  Where  is  Dr.  Yoo  now,  and 
may  I  not  see  him  ?  " 

"  Dr.  Yoo,"  said  the  Dragon  King,  "  is  an  official 
among  the  genii  and  so  is  at  his  post  and  cannot  come." 

After  the  various  glasses,  nine  in  all,  had  been 
passed,  the  General  said  good-bye.  "  I  have  many 
things  to  see  to  in  the  camp,"  he  said,  "  and  cannot 
stay  longer,  for  which  I  am  very  sorry.  My  one  desire 
is  that  the  lady  may  not  forget  her  marriage  vows." 

The  Dragon  King  said  that  he  would  see  that  they 
were  kept.  He  came  outside  the  palace  to  see  the 
General  off. 

1 66 


Humble  Submission 

On  looking  up  Yang  saw  before  him  a  great  and 
high  mountain,  with  five  peaks  that  reached  up  to  the 
clouds.  At  once  a  desire  took  possession  of  him  to  go 
and  see  them,  so  he  asked  of  the  Dragon  King  : 
"  What  mountain  is  this  ?  I,  So-yoo,  have  seen  many 
famous  mountains  of  the  world,  but  never  this  one 
before." 

The  Dragon  King  inquired  :  "  Do  you  not  know 
the  name  of  this  mountain  ?  It  is  Nam-ak,  full  of 
spiritual  lights,  strange  and  mysterious." 

"  Where  are  the  approaches  ?  "  asked  the  General. 

The  Dragon  King  replied  :  "  The  day  is  not  yet 
late,  let  us  take  a  hasty  look  at  it  before  we  go." 

The  General  then  mounted  the  chariot  and  was 
soon  at  the  base.  He  took  his  bamboo  staff  and  en- 
tered on  the  stony  way,  crossed  a  hill,  passed  over  a 
yawning  chasm,  where  the  surroundings  seemed 
more  and  more  wonderful,  with  a  thousand  views 
opening  out  before  his  vision,  impossible  to  take  in 
at  a  single  glance.  The  old  saying  of  "A  thousand 
peaks  vied  with  each  other  and  a  thousand  streams 
rushed  by  "  was  true  of  this  fairy  region. 

The  General  rested  on  his  staff  and  surveyed  the 
wide  landscape  with  an  increasing  sense  of  surprise 
and  questioning.  He  then  sighed  and  said  :  "  I  have 
long  been  a  follower  of  the  camp  and  engrossed  in 
the  fortunes  of  war,  so  am  tired  of  the  dust  of 
earth.  How  can  the  earth-to-earth  particles  of  this 
body  be  so  important  ?  How  can  one  win  lasting 
merit,  and  after  death  attain  to  eternal  life  ?  " 

As  he  said  this  to  himself  he  heard  the  sound  of 
bells  from  among  the  trees.  He  pushed  forward. 
"  Evidently,"   said  he,    "  there  is  a  temple  of  the 

167 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Buddha  somewhere  near."  He  crossed  a  dangerous 
pass  and  ascended  a  lofty  peak,  and  there  stood  a 
temple  with  the  main  hall  hidden  away  in  a  shady 
recess.  Many  priests  were  gathered  about.  The  chief 
priest  sat  on  an  elevated  dais,  and  at  the  time  of 
Yang's  approach  was  reading  the  sacred  books  and 
discoursing  on  the  same.  His  eyebrows  were  long 
and  white  and  his  features  thin  and  transparent.  His 
age  must  have  been  very  great  indeed. 

Seeing  the  General  approach,  he  called  all  the 
priests  together  to  meet  him.  "  We  dwellers  in  the 
hills,"  said  he,  "  are  dull  of  hearing  and  so  did  not 
know  beforehand  of  the  coming  of  your  Excellency, 
nor  have  we  gone  out  to  meet  you  beyond  the  gates 
as  we  should  have  done.  Please  forgive  us.  The  day 
of  your  final  coming  has  not  yet  arrived.  Will  you  not 
enter  the  hall,  worship  and  return  ?  " 

The  General  entered  before  the  Buddha,  burnt 
incense  and  made  his  obeisance.  Then  he  returned, 
and  as  he  stepped  down  his  foot  slipped  and  he  awoke 
with  a  start,  and  behold  he  was  leaning  on  his  writing- 
table  in  the  midst  of  the  camp. 

The  east  began  to  lighten.  In  wonder  he  asked  his 
aides  :  "  Did  you  gentlemen  sleep  and  dream  too  ?  " 
They  made  as  one  reply  :  "  We  accompanied  your 
Excellency  and  fought  an  awesone  spirit  army,  de- 
feated it,  took  captive  their  commander,  and  re- 
turned. This  is  assuredly  a  proof  of  certain  victory." 
The  General  told  all  that  he  had  seen  in  his  dream, 
and  afterwards  they  went  together  to  inspect  the 
White  Dragon  Lake.  The  ground  was  covered  with 
scattered  scales  of  fish  and  blood  that  flowed  like 
running  water.  First  of  all  the  General  raised  his  cup 

i68 


Humble  Submission 

and  took  a  drink  of  the  fateful  potion  and  then  re- 
freshed the  sick  soldiers.  They  recovered,  and  the 
army  came  in  companies  with  their  horses  to  the 
shore  and  drank  freely.  Their  glad  shoutings  shook 
the  earth  ;  the  rebels  heard  it  and  trembled,  desiring 
forthwith  to  make  terms. 

Yang  then  wrote  a  communication  announcing 
victory.  The  Emperor  was  greatly  delighted,  and  in 
his  memorial  to  the  Empress  Dowager  he  praised 
Yang  So-yoo,  saying  :  "  So-yoo  is  indeed  the  greatest 
general  since  the  days  of  Kwak  Pom-yang  ;  let  us 
wait  for  his  return  to  make  him  First  Minister  of  State 
and  so  reward  him  for  his  unparalleled  success.  If  he 
has  fully  decided  as  to  the  marriage  proposal  with 
the  Crown  Princess  and  can  conform  to  our  com- 
mands, all  is  well,  but  if  he  still  persists  in  having  his 
own  way,  we  cannot  punish  one  so  meritorious  as  he 
nor  compel  him  by  force.  It  is  a  question  difficult  to 
solve  and  one  full  of  deep  perplexity." 

The  Empress  Dowager  said  in  reply :  "  The 
daughter  of  Justice  Cheung  is  truly  a  very  beautiful 
girl.  He  and  she  have  met  and  seen  each  other.  How 
can  he  readily  cast  her  aside  ?  My  idea  is  to  take 
advantage  of  So-yoo 's  absence,  issue  an  order  com- 
manding Justice  Cheung  to  marry  off  his  daughter 
elsewhere,  and  so  do  away  for  ever  with  this  desire 
of  So-yoo.  How  can  they  fail  to  do  as  we  command  ?  " 

His  Majesty  did  not  reply,  but  waited  for  a  moment. 
He  then  got  up  quietly  and  went  out.  At  this  the 
Crown  Princess,  who  was  seated  by  the  side  of  her 
mother,  said  :  "  Mother,  your  honourable  decision 
is  indeed  quite  wrong.  The  question  of  Cheung  See's 
marriage  belongs  not  to  us  but  to  her  family.  How  can 

169 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

the  Government  undertake  to  direct  a  matter  of  this 
kind  ?  " 

The  Empress  replied  :  "  This  is  a  matter  of  ex- 
ceeding great  importance  to  yourself  as  well  as  to  the 
State.  I  must  talk  with  you  about  it.  General  Yang 
So-yoo  is  not  only  superior  to  others  in  looks  and 
learning,  but  already  by  the  tune  he  played  on  the 
jade  flute  he  has  proven  himself  your  chosen  affinity. 
You  cannot  possibly  turn  him  away  and  choose 
another.  So-yoo  has  already  established  a  special 
attachment  with  the  house  of  Justice  Cheung,  and 
cannot  cast  that  off  either.  This  is  a  most  perplexing 
matter.  I  think  that  after  So-yoo 's  return,  if  he  is 
married  to  you,  he  will  not  object  to  take  Cheung's 
daughter  as  a  secondary  wife.  I  wanted  first  to  inquire 
what  you  thought  of  this." 

The  Princess  said  :  "I  am  not  a  person  given  to 
jealousy.  Why  should  I  dislike  Cheung  See  ?  But  the 
fact  that  Yang  had  already  sent  her  his  wedding 
presents  forbids  his  making  her  his  secondary  wife. 
An  act  like  this  would  be  contrary  to  all  good  form. 
Justice  Cheung's  is  one  of  the  oldest  ministerial 
families,  distinguished  from  time  immemorial  for 
ability  and  learning.  Would  it  not  be  high-handed 
oppression  to  force  her  into  the  place  of  secondary 
wife  ?    It  would  never  never  do." 

The  Empress  said  :  "  Then  what  do  you  propose 
that  we  should  do  ?  " 

The  Princess  replied  :  "  Ministers  of  State  may 
have  three  wives  of  the  first  order.  When  General  Yang 
returns  with  his  high  honours,  if  he  attain  to  the 
highest  he  will  be  made  a  subject  king,  if  to  the  lowest 
he  will  still  be  a  duke,  and  it  will  be  no  presumption 

170 


Humble  Submission 

on  his  part  to  take  two  wives.  How  would  it  do  to  have 
him  take  Justice  Cheung's  daughter  as  his  real  wife 
as  well  as  myself  ?  " 

"  It  would  never  do,"  said  the  Empress.  "  When 
two  women  are  of  the  same  rank  and  station  there 
need  indeed  be  no  harm  or  wrong  done,  but  you  are 
the  beloved  daughter  of  his  late  Majesty  and  the 
sister  of  the  present  monarch.  You  are  therefore 
of  specially  high  rank  and  removed  from  all  others. 
How  could  you  possibly  be  the  wife  of  the  same  man 
with  a  common  woman  of  the  city  ?  " 

The  Princess  said  :  "  I  am  truly  high  in  rank  and 
station ;  this  I  know,  but  the  enlightened  kings  of  the 
past  and  those  who  were  sages  honoured  good  men 
and  great  scholars  regardless  of  their  social  position. 
They  loved  their  virtue,  so  that  even  the  emperor  of 
a  thousand  chariots  made  friends  and  intimates  of 
such  and  took  them  in  marriage  ;  why  should  we 
talk  of  high  rank  or  station  ?  I  have  heard  that 
Cheung's  daughter,  in  beauty  and  attainments,  is 
not  behind  any  of  the  famous  women  of  the  past.  If 
this  be  true  I  should  find  it  no  disgrace  at  all  but  an 
honour  to  make  an  equal  of  her.  Still,  what  I  have 
heard  of  her  may  not  be  true,  and  by  rumour  alone 
one  cannot  be  sure  of  the  real  or  the  imaginary.  I 
should  like  to  see  her  for  myself,  and  if  her  beauty  and 
talents  are  superior  to  mine  I  shall  condescend  to 
serve  her,  but  if  they  are  not  as  we  hear  them  re- 
ported, then  we  might  make  her  a  secondary  wife,  or 
even  a  serving-maid,  just  as  your  Majesty  may  think 
best." 

The  Empress  sighed,  and  said  :  "  To  be  jealous  of 
another's  beauty Js^a  natural  feeling  with  women,  but 

171 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

this  daughter  of  mine  loves  the  superiority  of  another 
as  much  as  if  it  were  her  own,  and  reverences  another's 
virtue  as  a  thirsty  soul  seeks  water ;  how  can  the 
mother  of  such  a  one  as  she  fail  to  be  happy  ?  I,  too, 
would  like  to  see  Cheung's  daughter.  I  shall  send  a 
dispatch  to  that  effect  to-morrow." 

The  Princess  replied :  "  Even  though  your 
Majesty  should  send  such  a  command  I  am  sure 
Cheung's  daughter  would  feign  sickness  and  not 
come.  If  she  should  decline  there  would  be  no  way 
of  summoning  her  by  force  as  she  belongs  to  a  min- 
ister's household.  Let  us  do  it  by  means  of  the  Taoist 
priestess  and  the  Buddhist  nun.  If  we  knew  of  Justice 
Cheung's  day  of  sacrifice  in  advance,  I  imagine  we 
should  have  no  difficulty  in  meeting  her," 

The  Dowager  thought  well  of  this  and  sent  a 
special  servant  to  make  inquiry  of  the  various  Taoist 
priestesses  who  lived  in  the  neighbourhood.  The  old 
woman  superior  of  the  Chong-se  Temple  said  : 
"  Usually  Justice  Cheung's  family  do  their  sacri- 
ficing to  the  Buddha  at  our  temple,  but  the  daughter 
does  not  come  herself ;  she  sends  her  servant. 
General  Yang's  secondary  wife,  Ka  Choon-oon.  She 
comes  with  orders  for  her  mistress  and  with  prayers 
written  out  that  are  placed  before  the  Buddha.  You 
may  take  this  written  prayer  of  hers  if  you  care  to 
show  it  to  Her  Majesty  the  Dowager." 

The  eunuch  accepted  it,  returned,  and  told  what  he 
had  heard  and  showed  Cheung  See's  written  prayer. 

The  Dowager  said  :  "  I  am  afraid  in  these  circum- 
stances that  it  will  be  difficult  to  see  her."  With  that 
the  Crown  Princess  and  she  unfolded  the  written 
prayer  and  they  read  it  together  : 

172 


Humble  Submission 

"  Thy  disciple,  Cheung  Kyong-pai,  by  means  of 
her  servant  Cloudlet,  who  has  bathed  and  made  the 
required  offerings,  bows  low,  worships  and  makes 
her  petition.  I,  thy  disciple,  Kyong-pai,  have  many 
sins  to  answer  for,  sins  of  a  former  existence  as  yet 
unexpiated.  These  account  for  my  birth  into  this 
life  as  a  desolate  girl  who  never  knew  the  joy  of 
sisterhood.  Already  had  I  become  the  recipient  of 
marriage  gifts  from  General  Yang  and  had  ex- 
pected to  live  my  life  in  his  home,  but  the  choice 
of  Yang  as  son-in-law  to  her  Majesty  the  Empress 
Dowager  has  reduced  all  my  poor  hopes  to  nothing- 
ness. I  am  cut  off  from  him,  and  can  only  regret 
that  the  ways  of  the  gods  and  the  ways  of  men  do 
not  harmonise.  Such  an  unlucky  person  as  I  have 
therefore  no  place  of  expectation.  Though  I  had 
not  yet  given  my  body,  my  mind  and  soul  were 
already  given,  and  for  me  to  change  and  put  my 
affections  elsewhere  would  not  be  according  to  the 
law  of  righteousness.  I  will  stay  then  with  my 
parents  during  their  remaining  years.  In  this 
moment  of  sadness  and  disappointed  experience  I 
come  to  offer  niy  soul  to  the  Buddha,  and  to  speak 
my  heart's  desire.  Please  condescend,  ye  Holy 
Ones,  to  accept  this  prayer  of  mine,  extend  to  me 
pity,  and  let  my  parents  live  long  like  the  endless 
measure  of  the  sky.  Grant  that  I  be  free  from  sick- 
ness and  trouble  so  that  I  may  be  able  to  dress 
neatly,  and  to  please  them,  and  thus  play  out  my 
little  part  in  life  on  their  behalf.  When  their  ap- 
pointed span  is  over  I  will  break  with  all  the  bonds 
of  earth,  submit  my  actions  to  the  requirements  of 
the  law  and  give  my  heart  to  the  reading  of  the 

173 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

sacred  sutras,  keep  myself  pure,  worship  the  Holy 
One,  and  make  payment  for  all  the  unmerited 
blessings  that  have  come  to  me.  My  servant,  Ka 
-  Choon-oon,  who  is  my  chosen  companion,  brings 
this  to  thee.  Though  in  name  we  are  maid  and 
mistress,  we  are  in  reality  friend  and  friend.  She, 
in  obedience  to  my  orders,  became  the  secondary 
wife  of  General  Yang,  but  now  that  matters  have 
fallen  otherwise,  and  there  is  no  longer  hope  for 
the  happy  affinity  that  was  mine,  she  too  has  bade 
a  long  farewell  to  him  and  come  back  to  me  so 
that  we  may  be  one  in  sorrow  as  well  as  in  blessing, 
in  death  as  well  as  in  life.  I  earnestly  pray  that  the 
divine  Buddha  will  condescend  to  read  our  two 
hearts,  and  grant  that  for  all  generations  and 
transmigrations  to  come,  we  may  escape  the  lot  of 
being  born  women  [36]  ;  that  thou  wilt  put  away 
all  our  sins  of  a  former  existence,  give  blessing 
for  the  future,  so  that  we  may  transmigrate  to 
some  happy  place  to  share  endless  bliss  for  ever. 
Amen." 

When  the  Princess  had  read  this  she  knit  her  brows, 
and  said  :  "By  one  person's  marriage  decision  two 
happy  people's  hopes  are  broken.  I  fear  that  a  great 
wrong  may  be  done  to  worth  and  virtue  unknown 
to  us." 

The  Dowager  heard  this  and  sat  silent. 

At  this  time  Cheung's  daughter  waited  upon  her 
parents  with  placid  countenance  and  resigned  ex- 
pression. Not  a  trace  was  there  of  dejection  or  sorrow. 
When  her  mother  saw  her  she  felt  overcome  with  a 
sense  of  pity  and  dismay.  Cloudlet  attended  lovingly 

174 


Humble  Submission 

and  compelled  Cheung  See  to  engage  in  writing 
or  games  so  as  to  pass  the  time,  her  own  mind  like- 
wise being  most  desolate  and  her  heart  broken.  little 
by  little  she  became  thin  and  frail,  as  one  overcome 
by  an  incurable  sickness.  Cheung  See  served  her 
parents  on  the  one  hand,  and  on  the  other  engaged 
herself  on  behalf  of  poor  Cloudlet.  Thus  was  her 
heart  hopelessly  confused,  finding  no  place  of  peace, 
though  others  would  not  have  guessed  it.  The 
daughter,  wishing  to  comfort  her  mother  by  means 
of  the  servants,  sought  every  variety  of  music  or  in- 
teresting recreation,  and  so  moment  by  moment 
tried  to  gladden  her  ears  and  eyes. 

On  a  certain  day  a  woman  came  bringing  two 
embroidered  pictures  to  Cheung's  house  desiring 
to  sell  them.  When  Cloudlet  had  unrolled  and 
looked  at  them,  one  was  a  picture  of  a  peacock 
among  the  flowers,  and  the  other  of  a  partridge 
in  the  forest.  All  the  embroidery  work  was 
exquisitely  done.  Greatly  admiring  them.  Cloudlet 
made  the  maid  wait  till  she  had  shown  them  to  the 
mother  and  daughter.  She  said  :  "  My  mistress  is 
always  praising  my  embroidery,  but  look  at  these 
pictures,  please.  What  do  you  think  of  them  for 
skill  ?  " 

The  young  lady  opened  them  out  before  her  mother, 
gave  a  great  exclamation  of  surprise,  and  said  :  "  No 
present  day  embroidery  can  possibly  equal  these, 
and  yet  the  colour  and  decorations  mark  them  as 
new  and  not  old.  They  are  wonderful.  Who  can 
possess  skill  such  as  this  ?  "  She  bade  Cloudlet  ask 
the  maid  whence  they  came,  and  the  maid  replied  : 
"  This  embroidery  is  done  by  the  hand  of  the  young 

175 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

mistress  of  our  home.  Just  now  she  is  Uving  alone, 
and  finding  special  need  of  money  wants  to  sell  them 
regardless  of  price." 

Cloudlet  asked  :  "  To  what  family  does  your 
mistress  belong,  pray,  and  for  what  reason  is  she 
staying  alone  ?  " 

The  maid  replied  :  "  Our  mistress  is  the  sister  of 
Yi  Tong-pan,  who,  with  his  mother,  has  gone  to 
Chol-dong  where  he  holds  office.  Because  she  was 
unwell  and  unable  to  follow,  the  young  lady  re- 
mained at  the  home  of  her  maternal  uncle,  Chang 
the  Charioteer.  Her  quarters  are  occupied  by  Madam 
Sa,  just  over  the  way,  where  she  is  awaiting  the  return 
from  Chol-dong." 

Cloudlet,  on  hearing  this,  went  in  and  told  it  to 
her  mistress;  The  young  lady  gave  a  liberal  price 
in  hairpins  and  other  ornaments  for  the  pictures, 
and  had  them  hung  up  in  the  main  hall  where  she 
sat  all  day  in  admiration  of  them,  praising  their  ex- 
cellence and  expressing  her  delight.  After  this  the 
maid  who  sold  the  pictures  came  frequently  to 
Justice  Cheung's  home  and  became  very  friendly 
with  Cheung's  servants. 

The  young  lady  said  to  Cloudlet :  "  The  fact  that 
Yi  See  has  such  wonderful  skill  of  hand  is  proof  that 
she  is  no  common  citizen.  I  shall  make  one  of  the 
servants  follow  her  maid  and  find  out  what  kind  of 
personage  she  is."  She  chose  a  bright  waiting- woman 
and  sent  her.  The  servant  followed  and  found  the 
lady's  residence  to  be  one  of  the  town  houses,  very 
small  and  very  neat,  with  no  outside  quarters  for  men. 

When  Yi  See  knew  that  she  was  a  servant  from 
Justice  Cheung's,  she  treated  her  to  the  best  of  fare 

176 


Visit  to  the  Monastery :  Pictures  to  Sell 


Humble  Submission 

and  sent  her  on  her  way  rejoicing.  The  servant  re- 
turned and  reported,  saying :  "  For  beauty  and 
loveliness  of  face  and  form,  she  is  a  second  copy  of 
our  own  dear  lady.  They  are  just  alike." 

Cloudlet  did  not  believe  this,  "  Her  embroidery," 
said  she,  "  is  indeed  wonderful,  but  as  for  her 
beauty,  why  do  you  tell  me  such  stories  ?  I  am  sure 
there  is  no  one  in  the  world  so  pretty  as  our  own 
lovely  mistress." 

The  servant  replied  :  "  If  Madam  Ka  doubts  my 
word,  let  her  send  someone  else  to  see  and  then  she 
will  know  the  truth  of  what  I  say." 

Cloudlet  then  sent  another  person  privately,  who 
also  came  back  saying :  "  Beautiful,  beautiful,  the 
lady  is  a  fairy  angel  from  heaven.  What  we  heard 
yesterday  is  true.  If  my  lady  Ka  still  doubts,  how 
would  it  be  if  she  should  go  and  see  for  herself  ?  " 

"  All  this  talk,"  said  Cloudlet,  "  is  nonsense. 
How  is  it  that  you  have  no  eyes  ?  "  And  so  they 
laughed  together  and  then  separated. 

A  few  days  later  Madam  Sa  called  at  Justice 
Cheung's  to  say  :  "  The  daughter  of  Yi  Tong-pan 
has  come  to  live  in  my  house  for  a  little ,  and  her  beauty 
and  wonderful  ability  excel  anything  I  have  ever 
seen.  She  has  heard  of  your  daughter  and  greatly 
admires  what  she  hears  of  her  beautiful  spirit  and 
behaviour.  She  would  like  to  meet  her  once  and  hear 
her  sweet  accents,  but  they  are  not  acquainted  and 
so  she  could  not  readily  herself  make  request. 
Knowing  that  I  was  a  friend  of  yours,  she  has  begged 
me  to  come  instead  and  make  it  for  her." 

At  once  Madam  Cheung  called  her  daughter  and 
told  her  what  had  been  said.  The  daughter  replied  : 

177  M 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

"  I  diflFer  from  other  people  in  my  freedom  and  I 
really  do  not  wish  to  see  anyone,  but,  learning  that 
the  young  lady's  attainments  and  beauty  are  on  a  par 
with  this  wonderful  embroidery  work,  I  should  like 
to  meet  her  once  to  brighten  my  darkened  outlook." 

Madam  Sa  was   greatly  pleased  at  this  and  re- 
turned home. 

On  the  day  following,  the  young  lady  sent  her 
servant  in  advance  to  say  that  she  was  coming,  and  a 
little  later  she  came  in  a  neat  curtained  chair  with  two 
or  three  attendants  who  accompanied  her  to  Cheung's 
mansion.  Cheung  See  met  her  in  her  bedroom,  and 
there  they  sat,  hostess  and  guest,  to  east  and  west, 
just  as  when  the  Weaving  Damsel  [37]  was  welcomed 
to  the  Palace  of  the  Moon,  or  to  the  feast  of  gems  in 
the  Paradise  of  Kwon-loon.  The  halo  of  light  that 
attended  them  illuminated  the  room,  so  that  they 
startled  each  other. 

Cheung  See  said  :  "  From  messengers  that  have 
come  and  gone,  I  learned  that  you  were  living  in  the 
neighbourhood,  but  one  so  unlucky  and  so  unfor- 
tunate as  I  had  broken  off  intercourse  with  friends 
and  had  given  up  paying  visits  till  now  your  ladyship 
has  condescended  to  call  on  me.  Thank  you  so  much. 
I  am  unable  to  express  my  delight  and  appreciation." 

The  visitor  replied  :  "  This  little  sister  of  yours  is 
a  very  stupid  girl.  Early  in  life  I  lost  my  father,  and 
my  mother  spoiled  me  so  that  I  really  did  not  learn 
anjrthing  arid  have  nothing  to  show  for  the  years  that 
have  gone  by.  This  I  regret  as  I  say  to  myself  :  '  A 
boy  is  free  to  go  to  all  points  of  land  and  sea,  can  pick 
and  choose  good  friends,  can  learn  from  another  and 
can  correct  his  faults,  while  a  girl  meets  no  one  but 

178 


Humble  Submission 

the  servants  of  her  own  household.  How  can  she 
expect  to  grow  in  goodness  or  to  find  in  any  such 
place  answers  to  the  questions  of  the  soul  ?  '  I  was 
mourning  over  the  fact  that  I  was  a  girl  shut  up  in 
prison,  when  happily  I  heard  that  your  knowledge 
was  equal  to  that  of  Pan-so 's  [38],  and  your  virtue 
and  loveliness  on  a  par  with  the  ancients.  Though 
you  do  not  pass  outside  your  own  gateway,  yet  your 
name  is  known  abroad  even  to  the  Imperial  Palace. 
Because  of  this,  and  forgetting  my  own  mean  quali- 
fications, I  wished  to  see  your  excellent  face.  You 
have  not  refused  me  admittance,  and  now  I  have 
attained  my  heart's  dearest  desire." 

Cheung  See  made  answer  :  "  Your  kind  words 
will  ever  live  in  my  humble  heart.  Locked  up  as  I 
am  in  these  inner  quarters,  my  footsteps  are  hindered 
from  freedom  and  my  sight  and  hearing  are  limited 
to  this  small  enclosure.  I  have  never  seen  the  waters 
of  the  wide  sea  nor  the  long  stretch  of  the  hills.  So 
limited  in  experience  and  knowledge  am  I  that  your 
praise  of  me  is  too  great  altogether."  She  brought 
out  refreshments  and  they  talked  as  those  long  ac- 
quainted. 

Yi  See  said  smilingly  :  "It  has  reached  my  ears 
that  there  is  a  little  Madam  Ka  in  your  home.  If 
that  be  so  I  should  like  very  much  to  meet  her." 

Cheung  See  replied  :  *'  I,  too,  had  just  that  wish 
in  mind,"  so  she  called  Cloudlet  to  come. 

When  Cloudlet  came  Yi  See  arose  to  greet  her. 
With  that  Cloudlet  gave  a  sudden  start  of  surprise, 
and  then  with  a  sigh  said  to  herself  :  "  What  we  were 
told  is  true.  Divine  heaven  hath  surely  created  my 
own  dear  lady  and  also  this  most  charming  Yi  See. 

179 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Beyond  one's  expectation  I  find  that  Pi-yon  [39] 
and  Ok-han  are  alive  at  one  and  the  same  time  upon 
earth." 

The  young  lady  said  to  herself :  "I  have  often 
heard  of  Madam  Ka,  but  she  is  really  prettier  than  I 
ever  dreamed.  How  could  General  Yang  fail  to  love 
her  ?  Why,  also,  when  mistress  and  maid  are  th\:is 
gifted  and  graced,  should  he  give  them  up  willingly?" 
So  interested  was  she  in  Cloudlet  that  she  spoke  to 
her  frankly  and  familiarly  as  with  the  dearest  friend. 
Then  she  said  farewell,  and  added  :  "  The  day  is 
drawing  late  and  I  must  not  stay  longer,  but  I  am 
sorry  to  go.  Your  little  sister's  home  is  just  over  the 
way;  when  you  have  a  moment  of  leisure,  come,  I 
pray  you,  and  let  me  hear  your  dear  voice  again." 

Cheung  See  said  :  "  All  unexpectedly  you  have 
come  into  my  life  and  I  have  heard  your  sweet  words. 
In  return  I  should  like  so  much  to  call  on  your  dis- 
tinguished home  and  present  my  felicitations,  but 
my  circumstances  are  different  from  those  of  others, 
and  I  dare  not  set  foot  out  of  the  main  gateway. 
Please  forgive  this  defect  of  mine  and  accept  my 
love." 

The  two  bade  each  other  good-bye  with  the  keen- 
est regret.  Not  only  so,  but  Cheung  See  said  to 
Cloudlet :  "  Although  the  sword  is  within  the  sheath, 
the  glittering  light  from  its  blade  shoots  up  to  the 
seven  stars  of  the  Dipper  ;  and  though  the  ancient 
crayfish  lies  hidden  in  the  depths  of  the  sea,  the 
sphere  of  it  ascends  to  the  pavilion  heights.  That  we 
have  lived  in  this  same  city  all  our  Uves,  she  and  I, 
and  yet  that  I  have  never  heard  of  her  before  puzzles 
all  my  powers  of  comprehension." 

180 


Humble  Submission 

Cloudlet  replied  :  "  Your  humble  servant  has  one 
doubt  in  mind  regarding  this  matter.  General  Yang 
has  frequently  said  that  he  met  the  daughter  of  Com- 
missioner Chin  first  of  all  by  seeing  her  in  the  upper 
storey  of  her  pavilion,  and  again  he  received  her 
writing  in  the  city  guest-house  and  made  a  contract 
of  marriage  with  her,  but  Commissioner  Chin  died  a 
violent  death  and  lost  everything.  He  praised  her 
matchless  beauty  and  sighed  over  her.  I,  too,  have 
seen  the  love-song  that  she  wrote  and  assuredly  she 
is  a  gifted  girl.  It  may  be  that  she  has  changed  her 
name,  and  by  making  friends  with  your  ladyship 
hopes  to  unite  the  broken  threads  of  her  affinity." 

Cheung  See  replied:  "I,  too,  have  heard  else- 
where of  Chin  See's  beauty  and  I  think  she  must  be 
very  much  like  this  lady,  but  after  the  disaster  that 
overtook  her  I  understood  that  she  became  a  palace 
maid-in-waiting.  In  such  circumstances  how  could 
she  ever  come  here  ?  "  Then  she  went  in  to  see  her 
mother,  and  ceased  not  in  her  praise  of  the  mysterious 
visitor. 

The  lady  replied  :  "  I,  too,  must  invite  her  once 
and  see  her."  A  few  days  later  she  sent  a  servant  ask- 
ing that  Yi  See  would  condescend  to  come.  To  this 
she  gladly  assented. 

The  lady  Cheung  went  out  before  the  main  hall  to 
welcome  her.  Like  a  near  relative,  Yi  See  made  a  deep 
obeisance  before  her.  The  lady  Cheung  was  highly 
delighted,  and  loved  her  dearly  and  treated  her  with 
the  greatest  respect.  "  My  young  ladyship  came  the 
other  day  so  graciously  to  see  my  daughter  and  was 
so  loving  and  dear  to  her.  Old  woman  as  I  am,  I 
thank  you  most  heartily.  That  day  I  was  unwell  and 

i8i 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

did  not  see  you,  a  matter  of  the  deepest  regret  to  me 


now." 


Yi  See  bowed  before  her  and  said  :  "  Your  humble 
niece  had  long  desired  to  see  the  fairy  dweller  of  your 
household,  but  had  feared  that  she  might  miss  her. 
Meeting  her  thus  and  being  treated  by  her  as  a  dear 
sister,  and  your  ladyship's  receiving  me  as  though  I 
were  a  member  of  your  family^  embarrass  me  so 
that  I  do  not  know  how  to  express  my  thanks.  I 
desire,  as  long  as  I  live,  to  go  in  and  out  of  your  home 
and  serve  your  ladyship  as  though  you  were  my 
mother." 

The  lady  two  or  three  times  declared  that  she  could 
never  let  that  be  so. 

Cheung  See  in  company  with  Yi  See  waited  on 
her  mother  for  the  day  and  then  she  invited  her  into 
her  own  room,  where  they  sat  like  the  three  feet  of 
the  incense  burner,  she,  and  Yi  See,  and  Cloudlet. 

They  laughed  sweetly  and  talked  in  soft  and  tender 
accents.  Perfect  agreement  possessed  them  in  thought, 
and  mind,  and  soul,  and  they  loved  each  other  with 
infinite  delight,  talking  of  all  the  great  masters  of  the 
past  and  of  the  renowned  ladies  of  ages  gone  by  till 
the  shadows  of  the  night  began  to  cast  their  lines 
athwart  the  silken  window. 


182 


Chapter  XI 
The  Capture  of  Cheung  See 

WHEN  the  young  lady  had  taken  her  de- 
parture, the  lady  Cheung  said  to  her 
daughter  and  to  Cloudlet :  "  The  relation 
of  our  two  families,  Choi  and  Cheung,  has  always 
been  very  close  and  intimate.  Hundreds  of  times  and 
more  they  have  intermarried,  and  in  these  two 
families,  from  my  earliest  years,  I  have  seen  many 
persons  of  great  gifts  and  beauty,  but  none  just  like 
Yi  See.  She  is  indeed  your  peer.  If  you  two,  gifted 
as  you  are,  could  become  sworn  sisters  it  would 
indeed  be  well." 

Cheung  See  mentioned  what  Cloudlet  had  said 
regarding  Chin  See,  and  added  :  "  Cloudlet  has  her 
doubts  about  the  lady  Yi,  but  her  opinion  differs 
from  mine.  Besides  ability  and  beauty  of  face,  Yi 
See  has  a  distinguished  manner  and  a  dignity  of  be- 
haviour that  diifers  entirely  from  the  ordinary  young 
women  of  the  city.  Although  Chin  See  be  as  gifted  as 
she  is  said  to  be,  how  could  she  ever  hope  to  compare 
with  one  so  striking  ?  If  I  were  to  speak  as  I  have 
heard  rumour  say,  she  has  a  face  and  a  heart  that 
answers  to  the  Princess  Orchid.  Her  great  ability 
agrees  thereto  likewise,  and  her  loving  tender  spirit. 
I  have  heard  it  said,  too,  that  Yi  See's  face  is  not 
unlike  that  of  the  Princess  Imperial." 

To  this  the  lady  Cheung  made  answer  :  "  I  have 
never  seen  the  Princess  and  so  cannot  definitely  say  ; 
but  even  though  she  occupies  her  high  place  and 

183 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

wears  her  Imperial  name,  how  could  she  possibly 
equal  Yi  See  ?  " 

The  daughter's  reply  was  :  "  I  am  in  doubt,  and 
must  send  Cloudlet  to  take  note  of  her  surroundings 
and  behaviour," 

On  the  second  day  Miss  Cheung  and  Cloudlet 
were  talking  the  matter  over  when  Yi  See's  servant 
arrived  to  say  :  "  Our  lady  finds  a  messenger  going  to 
Chol-dong,  where  her  brother  is,  and  intends  to 
depart  to-morrow.  She  would  like  to  come  to-day 
and  make  her  farewell  salutation  to  the  lady  and  her 
daughter." 

On  hearing  this,  Cheung  See  ordered  the  hall  to  be 
specially  brightened  up  and  waited  breathlessly. 
Shortly  after  Yi  See  arrived,  bowed  to  the  lady  and 
to  Cheung  See,  and  sjioke  her  message  of  departure. 
The  sincerity  with  which  the  two  took  their  farewell 
was  specially  touching.  They  were  like  two  dear 
sisters  separating  one  from  the  other,  or  a  lover  bid- 
ding a  long  good-bye  to  his  sweetheart. 

Yi  See  said  to  the  lady  Cheung  :  "  Your  niece's 
separation  from  her  mother  and  brother  now  measures 
a  whole  year,  and  I  long  so  much  to  see  them  that  I 
cannot  wait.  My  heart,  however,  is  bound  to  your 
ladyship  and  to  my  dearest  friend  with  an  unbreak- 
able tie.  As  I  attempt  to  pull  myself  away  I  find  that 
it  grows  stronger  and  stronger.  I  have  one  word  to 
say  and  one  wish  to  express.  I  fear,  nevertheless, 
that  Cheung  See  may  not  grant  my  wish,  so  I  mention 
it  to  your  ladyship."  She  hesitated,  however,  so  that 
the  words  failed  to  express  themselves. 

The  lady  said  :  "  What  is  it  that  you  would  like 
to  ask  ?  " 

184 


The  Capture  of  Cheung  See 

Yi  See  made  answer  :  "I  have  just  finished  an 
embroidered  picture  of  the  merciful  Buddha  that  I 
have  v(?orked  in  memory  of  my  late  father.  My 
brother  is  now  in  the  county  of  Chol-dong ;  I  am  a 
woman  and  cannot  ask  a  favour  of  the  literati,  so  I 
have  not  found  anyone  to  write  an  inscription  on  it 
for  me.  I  am  most  desirous  that  my  sister  Cheung  See 
should  write  two  or  three  lines  of  verse.  Because  the 
picture  is  wide  in  size  and  difficult  to  fold  or  carry, 
and  in  danger  of  being  damaged  by  a  journey,  I  would 
rather  not  bring  it.  The  only  alternative  is  that  I  take 
her  to  my  home  with  me  and  get  her  to  write  or  com- 
pose something  there,  so  that  my  poor  effort  on  behalf 
of  my  late  father  may  be  made  perfect  and  my  soul 
find  delight.  I  do  not  know,  however,  what  Cheung 
See  may  think  of  it,  so  I  did  not  dare  to  ask  her 
directly  ;  therefore  I  make  my  wishes  known  first  to 
your  ladyship." 

The  lady  looked  at  her  daughter  and  said  :  "  You 
are  not  accustomed  to  go  to  the  homes  even  of  your 
near  relatives,  but  you  have  this  invitation  now  which 
we  cannot  but  regard.  It  comes  from  Yi  See's  earnest 
heart  of  devotion  to  her  father.  Besides  her  place  of 
residence  is  not  far  away.  I  think  it  would  be  quite 
right  and  proper  for  you  to  go  and  return  quickly." 
^Cheung  See's  face  clouded  at  first  with  hesitation, 
but  when  she  thought  of  it  she  quieted  her  appre- 
hensions and  said  :  "  Yi  See's  circumstances  are 
such  that  her  time  is  very  limited,  so  it  would  not  do 
to  send  Cloudlet  instead.  I  shall  avail  myself  of  the 
opportunity  to  see  what  her  world  is  like  and  thus 
solve  the  question  that  is  in  my  mind."  This  she 
said  to  herself,  but  to  her  mother  she  replied :  "  If 

185 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Yi  See's  invitation  were  an  ordinary  one  I  could  not 
accede  to  it,  but  her  devotion  to  her  father  is  some- 
thing that  all  must  commerid.  How  can  I  refuse  ?  I 
shall  wait,  however,  till  evening,  and  when  night 
falls  I  shall  go." 

Yi  See  was  greatly  delighted  and  thanked  her  over 
and  over  again,  saying  :  "  But  if  it  is  too  dark  it  will 
be  very  difficult  for  you  to  write.  If  you  dislike  the 
confusion  of  the  way,  my  chair,  though  narrow  and 
uncomfortable,  can  easily  enough  accommodate  two 
persons  like  us.  Come  with  me,  will  you  not,  please, 
and  when  evening  falls  you  can  then  return  home." 

Cheung  See  made  answer  :  "  I  am  unable  to  resist 
your  kind  words." 

With  this  she  bowed  to  her  mother  and  said  her 
adieu.  She  gave  to  Cloudlet  a  little  press  of  the  hand 
by  way  of  special  recognition,  and  then  she  and  Yi 
See  rode  side  by  side  in  the  same  palanquin,  with  a 
number  of  serving-women  from  Justice  Cheung's 
following  behind. 

They  arrived  at  Yi  See's  private  room,  where  the 
things  displayed  were  not  many  in  number  but  were 
of  a  very  excellent  quality.  The  fare,  also,  while  not 
lavish  in  quantity,  was  of  the  daintiest  kind. 

Cheung  See  thought :  "I  am  in  greater  per- 
plexity than  ever." 

The  day  passed  and  the  evening  gradually  grew  near, 
but  Yi  See  said  nothing  whatever  about  the  writing. 

"  Where  have  you  placed  the  picture  of  the  Merci- 
ful Buddha  ?  "  inquired  Cheung  See.  "  I  would  like 
so  much  to  make  my  bow  before  it." 

Yi  See  said:  "Assuredly,  I  must  ask  you  to  come 
with  me  to  see  it." 

1 86 


The  Capture  of  Cheung  See 

Before  she  had  finished  speaking,  a  sound  of  horses 
and  chariots  was  heard  from  before  the  door  and  a 
long  succession  of  flags  suddenly  lined  the  street- way. 

The  servants  from  Justice  Cheung's  came  rushing 
in  in  great  fear  to  say  that  a  company  of  soldiers  had 
surrounded  the  house. "  Mistress,  mistress,"  said 
they,   "  what  shall  we  do  ?  " 

Cheung  See,  already  guessing  the  nature  of  the 
commotion,  sat  still  and  unmoved. 

Yi  See  said  to  her  by  way  of  assurance  :  "  Please 
do  not  be  alarmed  in  the  least.  Your  little  sister  is  no 
other  than  Princess  Nan-yang,  So-wha.  Nan-yang 
my  title  and  So-wha  my  given  name.  My  bringing 
you  here  was  at  the  command  of  the  Empress 
Dowager." 

Cheung  See  instantly  arose  from  her  seat  and 
made  reply  :  "  Though  wholly  unenlightened  my- 
self and  unsophisticated,  I  knew  by  your  Highness 's 
face  and  form  that  you  were  different  from  the  rest 
of  the  world.  But  your  visiting  me  was  so  far  beyond 
the  most  extravagant  dreams  of  my  fancy  that  I  have 
been  entirely  taken  off  my  guard.  I  have  failed  in 
the  proper  forms  and  have  in  a  hundred  other  un- 
comely ways  sinned  before  you.  Please  have  me 
punished  as  I  deserve." 

The  Princess  did  not  have  time  to  reply  before  a 
servant  came  in  and  said  :  "  The  palace  maids,  Sol, 
Wang  and  Wha,  have  been  sent  to  inquire  for  your 
Highness," 

The  Princess  then  said  to  Cheung  See  :  "  Wait 
here  for  a  moment,  will  you  please."  She  went  out 
to  the  main  hallway  where  the  three  women  had 
entered  in  order  and  gave  the  ceremonial  bow  before 

187 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

her,  saying :  "  It  is  now  several  days  since  your 
Highness  left  the  palace.  The  Empress  Dowager 
greatly  desires  to  see  you.  The  Emperor,  too,  and 
the  Empress  have  sent  maids-in-waiting  to  make 
inquiry.  To-day  is  the  appointed  time  of  your  re- 
turn, so  horses,  carriages  and  other  necessaries  wait 
outside  the  door.  His  Majesty  has  ordered  the  eunuch 
Cho  to  attend  you." 

The  three  maids  added  :  "  The  Empress  Dowager 
has  commanded  that  Cheung  See  ride  with  you  in 
the  royal  palanquin  and  come  to  the  palace." 

The  Princess  told  the  maids  to  wait  while  she  went 
in  once  more,  and  said  to  Cheung  See :  "I  have 
many  things  to  say  to  you  as  soon  as  we  find  quiet, 
but  now  the  Empress  Dowager,  my  mother,  wants  to 
see  you  and  has  come  out  to  the  Ma  Pavilion,  where 
she^is  waiting.  Please  come  with  me  at  once  and  be 
presented  to  her." 

Cheung  See,  knowing  that  she  must  not  refuse, 
said  in  reply  :  "  Your  humble  servant  knows  already 
how  tenderly  your  Highness  loves  her,  but  an  un- 
couth country  girl  who  never  in  her  life  before  was 
presented  at  court,  fears  that  she  may  fail  to  do  the 
proper  thing,  and  is  very  much  alarmed." 

The  Princess  replied  :  "  The  thought  that  prompts 
the  Dowager  to  see  you  is  the  same  thought  that 
makes  me  love  you.  Please  do  not  be  anxious  in  the 
least,  but  just  come." 

Cheung  See  said  :  "  Will  your  Highness  not  pro- 
ceed to  the  palace  first  ?  If  you  do  so  I  shall  return 
home  to  tell  my  mother  and  then  follow." 

But  the  Princess  objected.  "  The  Empress  has 
already  given  commands,"   she  said,   "  that  I  ride 

1 88 


The  Capture  of  Cheung  See 

with  you  in  the  same  palanquin.  Her  commands  are 
very  pressing.  I  urge  you  not  to  hesitate." 

Cheung  See  then  said  :  *'  I  am  only  a  humble  child 
of  a  subject ;  how  could  I  think  of  riding  in  the  same 
chair  with  your  Highness  ?  " 

"  Kan  Tai-kong,"  said  the  Princess  Nan-yang, 
"  was  only  a  fisher  by  the  Wee  River,  and  yet  he  rode 
in  the  same  chariot  with  King  Moon.  Hoo-yong  was 
only  a  gatekeeper,  and  yet  he  held  Prince  Sillong's 
horse.  It  is  our  duty  to  do  honour  to  those  who  are 
great  and  good.  Why  do  you  call  attention  to  rank 
and  station  ?  You  yourself  are  of  an  old  family  of  the 
nobility.  Why  should  you  hesitate  to  ride  in  the  same 
chair  with  your  little  sister  ?  "  So  she  took  her  by  the 
hand  and  they  mounted  the  palanquin  together. 

Cheung  See  sent  one  servant  home  to  tell  her 
mother,  while  another  attended  her  to  the  palace. 

Thus  they  went  together,  the  Princess  and  her 
charge,  entering  by  the  East  Gate,  They  passed  the 
nine  pagoda  arches  to  the  private  entrance,  where 
they  dismoimted.  The  Princess  said  to  lady  Wang, 
who  was  in  waiting  :  "  You  remain  here  for  a  little 
with  my  lady  Cheung." 

Lady  Wang  replied  :  "  I  have,  in  accordance  with 
the  commands  of  her  Majesty  the  Dowager,  prepared 
a  special  place  for  the  lady  Cheung  to  stay." 

The  Princess,  greatly  pleased  at  this,  bade  them 
wait  while  she  went  in  and  presented  herself  before 
the  Empress  Dowager. 

At  first  the  Dowager  had  had  no  desire  to  meet 
Cheung  See,  but  since  the  Princess  had  lived  in  dis- 
guise near  her,  and  had  won  her  friendship  by  means 
of  the  pair  of  pictures,  and  had  discovered  that 

189 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

her  character  and  attainments  were  lovely,  her  feelings 
of  interest  were  kindled  likewise.  From  what  had 
been  reported  she  had  learned  to  appreciate  why  Yang 
had  not  wished  to  give  her  up  ;  why  her  daughter, 
the  Princess,  and  Cheung  See  loved  each  other ;  why 
they  had  made  a  contract  of  sisterhood  ;  and  why  in 
one  home  they  would  serve  the  same  husband. 

The  Empress  Dowager  had  therefore  learnt  to 
understand,  and  had  given  consent  at  last  to  the 
Princess  and  Cheung  See  both  becoming  wives  of 
General  Yang.  She  now  desired- greatly  to  see  her 
face,  and  had  devised  the  plan  by  which  she  had  been 
brought. 

r#  Cheung  See  waited  for  a  little  in  the  appointed 
place.  Presently  two  maids  came  out  from  the  inner 
palace  bearing  a  box  with  clothing.  They  also  de- 
livered the  commands  of  the  Empress  Dowager, 
which  read  :  "  Miss  Cheung  is  a  daughter  of  a 
minister  and  should  therefore  conform  to  the  required 
ceremonies  of  the  nobility.  She  is  now  wearing  the 
dress  of  an  unmarried  girl,  in  which  no  one  can  come 
into  my  presence.  I  am  sending  herewith  a  ceremonial 
robe  of  a  lady  of  high  rank." 

"  We  maids-in-waiting  have  taken  Her  Majesty's 
commands,"  said  the  attendants.  "  Please,  your 
ladyship,  dress  and  enter." 

Cheung  See  bowed,  and  said  :  "  How  can  anyone 
so  unpractised  as  I  dress  in  a  lady's  ceremonial  robe  ? 
Though  my  garb  is  poor,  still  it  is  the  dress  in  which 
I  appear  before  my  parents.  Her  Imperial  Highness 
is  the  mother  of  us  all,  please  let  me  appear  in  the 
dress  that  I  wear  before  my  parents  while  I  go  into 
audience  before  her." 

190 


Mr 

1 


The  Princess  Visits  Cheung  See :  Cheung  See's  Return  Visit 


The  Capture  of  Cheung  See 

The  maids  so  reported,  and  Her  Majesty  was 
greatly  delighted  with  the  answer  and  called  her  at 
once.  She  followed  step  by  step,  and  arrived  at  the 
dais.  On  each  side  the  ladies-in-waiting  vied  in  their 
efforts  to  see,  and  said  in  wondering  admiration  : 
"  We  had  thought  that  all  beauty  and  loveliness  be- 
longed exclusively  to  our  Princess.  Who  would  have 
believed  that  this  little  lady  Cheung  could  be  so 
startlingly  beautiful  ?  " 

She  made  her  deepest  obeisance  and  then  was  led 
by  the  maids  up  to  the  dais.  There  the  Empress 
made  her  sit  down  and  gently  said  to  her  :  "  The 
issuing  of  an  Imperial  command  ordering  the  return 
of  your  marriage  gifts  to  General  Yang  was  an  act 
of  the  Government,  and  not  of  myself  personally. 
My  daughter  objected  to  it  at  that  time,  and  said  : 
*  For  any  man  to  break  a  marriage  contract  pertains 
not  to  the  straight  and  narrow  way  on  which  kings 
should  walk.'  She  desired  instead,  and  proposed  in 
fact,  that  she  should  serve  General  Yang  along  with 
you.  I  counselled  with  His  Majesty,  and  we  have 
decided  to  follow  the  unselfish  wish  of  our  daughter. 
We  now  await  the  return  of  Yang  in  order  to  have 
him  once  more  send  his  gifts  and  make  you  his  first 
and  chief  wife.  Such  kind  favour  was  not  known 
before,  nor  was  it  ever  heard  or  dreamed  of,  I  am 
sure.  This  is  what  I  specially  desired  to  tell  you." 

Cheung  See  arose  and  made  reply :  "  Your 
Majesty's  kindness  is  exceedingly  great,  and  of  such 
a  character  as  no  courtier  could  ever  dream.  I,  in  my 
lowly  station,  can  make  no  return  for  your  illimitable 
favour.  I,  your  humble  subject,  am  only  the  daughter 
of  a  minister  and  ought  never  to  stand  on  the  same 

191 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

footing  as  Her  Highness  the  Crown  Princess,  nor 
accept  a  place  equal  to  her  in  station.  Even  though  I 
might  desire  to  yield  obedience  to  your  commands, 
it  would  be  impossible  for  my  parents  to  consent. 
They  would  rather  die  than  allow  me  to  do  so  pre- 
sumptuous a  thing."  x 

The  Dowager  replied  :  "  Your  humility  is  most 
becoming,  yet  members  of  your  family  for  genera- 
tions have  been  marquesses  and  earls.  Your  father 
was  a  valued  minister  of  my  late  husband,  and 
received  special  honour  in  the  court.  Difference  in 
rank  is  not  a  thing  to  be  troubled  about." 

But  Cheung  See  said  :  "  A  courtier's  ready  obedi- 
ence to  his  king's  commands  is  as  natural  as  the 
course  of  nature  in  the  changing  seasons.  Though 
you  elevate  me  to  the  rank  of  nobility,  or  degrade  me 
to  the  place  of  servant,  how  dare  I  offer  opposition, 
and  yet  how  could  Yang  So-yoo  accept  it  with  com- 
placency ?  Your  humble  subject  has  no  brothers  or 
sisters,  and  my  parents  are  already  old.  My  one 
supreme  wish  is  to  serve  them  with  a  faithful  heart 
during  the  remaining  years  of  their  life." 

The  Dowager  went  on  to  say  :  "  Your  devotion  to 
your  parents  greatly  pleases  me,  but  why  should  you 
stay  in  a  place  of  obscurity  where  you  will  never  be 
able  to  attain  to  a  single  wish  of  the  heart  ?  You  are 
born  with  all  possible  graces  and  gifts.  How  could 
Yang  So-yoo  think  of  casting  you  off  ?  Also  my 
daughter  here  has  given  proof  of  a  destined  affinity 
with  him  by  a  tune  played  upon  the  flute.  What  God 
hath  joined  together  let  no  man  put  asunder.  Yang 
So-yoo  is  a  great  general  of  the  highest  order.  He  has 
such  genius  as  has  not  been  seen  since  the  days  of  the 

192 


The  Capture  of  Cheung  See 

ancients.  What  offence  against  society  would  it  be 
his  taking  two  wives  ?  I  had  originally  two  daughters, 
but  Nan-yang's  sister  died  at  ten  years  of  age,  and  I 
have  always  much  regretted  Nan-yang's  loneliness. 
Now  that  I  see  you,  with  your  pure  heart  and 
beauty,  not  inferior  in  the  least  to  hers,  it  seems  as 
though  I  had  got  back  my  dead  child.  I  shall  make 
you  my  adopted  daughter,  and  shall  get  the  Emperor 
to  assign  you  title  and  rank.  In  the  first  place  you 
shall  be  the  sign  of  my  love  for  my  dear  departed 
child  ;  in  the  second  place  you  shall  be  my  gift  to 
Nan-yang  ;  and  in  the  third  place  I  shall  have  you 
along  with  her  come  under  the  protection  of  Yang 
So-yoo  and  so  settle  all  these  perplexing  questions. 
What  do  you  say  to  this  ?  " 

The  young  lady  bowed  low  and  said  :  "Since 
your  Majesty  has  so  decided,  this  humble  girl  will,  I 
fear,  die  under  the  weight  of  too  great  favour.  My  one 
desire  is  that  your  Majesty  will  withdraw  the  com- 
mand, and  let  this  obscure  child  fly  away  in  peace." 

The  Empress  said  :  "I  have  made  known  my 
wishes  to  His  Majesty  the  Emperor,  and  he  will 
definitely  decide  it.  You  must  not  be  headstrong^  in 
the  matter." 

She  called  the  Princess  and  made  her  come  for- 
ward near  to  Cheung  See. 

The  Princess,  in  ceremonial  robes,  shining  in 
glory,  sat  by  her  side. 

The  Dowager  laughed  and  said  :  "  You  have 
wished  to  have  Cheung  See  for  your  sister,  and  now 
it  has  come  to  pass.  No  one  could  tell  who  is  the 
elder,  you  or  she.  Have  you  no  regrets  now  ?  "  She 
took  Cheung  See  by  the  hand  to  make  her  her 

193  N 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

adopted  daughter.  She  then  stood  her  close  up  to 
Princess  Orchid.  The  Princess,  greatly  delighted, 
thanked  her  mother,  saying :  "  Your  Highness's 
decision  is  the  dearest  in  the  world.  You  have  brought 
all  my  fondest  wishes  to  pass.  How  can  I  tell  you  of 
the  joy  that  now  fills  my  soul  ?  " 

The  Dowager  gave  Cheung  See  a  great  and  mag- 
nificent reception,  and  as  they  talked  of  the  old  poets 
she  said  :  "  I  have  heard  from  the  Princess  that  you 
are  skilful  with  the  pen  and  at  poetic  composition.  It 
is  all  quiet  here  in  the  palace,  and  with  the  delights  of 
spring  about  us,  will  you  sing  for  me  once  ?  Do  not 
be  backward  now,  but  cheer  me,  my  child.  Among 
the  noted  ancients  there  was  one  famous  scholar  who 
could  write  a  verse  before  the  quick  of  foot  could  go 
seven  courses  ;  can  you  do  that,  my  child  ?  " 

Cheung  See  made  reply  :  "  Now  that  I  have 
heard  your  gracious  command,  I  must  try  with  all 
the  skill  I  have  to  please  your  Majesty." 

The  Empress  picked  out  from  the  palace  maids 
those  most  nimble,  made  them  stand  in  a  row  in 
front  of  the  main  hall,  gave  out  the  subject  and 
made  ready  a  signal. 

But  Princess  Orchid  called  to  her  and  said : 
"  Mother,  you  must  not  have  Cheung  See  write  all 
alone ;  1*11  join  her  and  try  also." 

The  Dowager,  pleased  with  this,  gave  permission. 
She  said  :  "  Daughter,  your  wish  is  a  proper  one." 
She  then  thought  of  a  suloject.  It  was  late  spring.  The 
peaches  were  in  bloom  outside  the  pavilion  railing, 
and  the  happy  jay-birds  were  calling  as  they  sat  upon 
the  branches.  The  Dowager  pointed  to  these  and 
said  :    "I  have  decided  upon  your  marriage,  and 

194 


The  Capture  of  Cheung  See 

yonder  jay  upon  the  high  tree-tops  announces  his 
delight.  He  is  a  lucky  omen.  Let  us  make  this 
the  subject,  The  Peach  Flower  and  the  Happy  Jay- 
bird:' 

They  were  to  write  a  verse  before  the  seven 
courses  could  be  run,  and  each  verse  was  to  contain 
some  reference  to  their  happy  marriage. 

She  told  the  maids-in-waiting  to  have  everything 
in  order,  pen,  ink,  and  so  on,  for  the  Princess  and 
Cheung  See.  At  the  given  signal  the  women  in  front 
of  the  main  hall  started  on  their  way,  but  fearing  that 
the  two  would  not  be  able  to  finish  while  the  seven 
courses  were  being  run,  they  looked  back  at  them 
and  took  their  steps  slowly.  The  two  pens  flew  like 
swift  wind  or  a  sudden  squall  of  rain.  Off  the  lines 
were  dashed,  and  they  were  done  before  the  women 
had  completed  five  of  the  courses. 

The  Dowager  read  what  Cheung  See  had  written, 
and  it  ran  thus  : 

"  The  swift  wind  rocks  the  tipsy  peach 
Beioxe  the  Palace  Hall, 
While  from  the  height,  far  out  of  reach. 
There  sounds  the  mavis'  call. 

The  dancer's  swing  and  silken  fold 

Awake  the  happy  day, 
While  in  the  group  a  magpie  bold 

Has  found  her  wondering  way." 


195 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

The  Princess's  verses  ran  thus  : 

"  In  the  court  of  the  Palace  a  hundred  buds  blow, 
As  the  jay-bird  sweeps  in  with  his  spirit  aglow. 
He  bends  his  strong  back  o'er  the  wide  Milky  Way, 
To  bear  two  small  dots  who  are  coming  to  stay." 

The  Dowager  read  these  and  sighed,  saying : 
"  These  two  are  the  spirits  of  Yi  Tai-baik  and  Cho 
Cha-gon.  If  we  could  mark  women  as  literary  gradu- 
ates, we  should  rate  them  first  and  second  in  the 
contest  of  the  year."  So  she  exchanged  the  two  com- 
positions, giving  one  to  each,  and  each  admired  and 
praised  the  other. 

The  Princess  said  to  Her  Majesty :  "I  have 
managed  to  fill  out  my  couplets,  but  the  sentiment  is 
one  that  might  be  easily  expressed  by  anyone.  Cheung 
See's,  however,  are  beautifully  done.  I  cannot  attain 
to  such  excellence." 

"  That  is  so,"  said  the  Empress ;  "  but  yours  too, 
dear,is  very  well  done,  and  everyone  would  admire  it." 


196 


Two  in  One  Palanquin  :  The  Poetry  Contest 


Chapter  XII 
Yang's  Supreme  Regret 

AT  this  time  the  Emperor  came  in  to  make 
his  salutations  before  the  Empress  Dowager, 
and  the  Empress  bade  the  Princess  and 
Cheung  See  make  their  escape  into  a  neighbouring 
room.  She  spoke  to  the  Emperor,  saying  :  "  In  refer- 
ence to  the  Princess's  marriage,  you  know  I  made 
the  Cheung  family  return  the  gifts  that  had  been 
sent,  and  this  has  caused  damage  to  the  Imperial 
prestige.  To  make  Cheung's  daughter  a  wife  along 
with  the  Princess  would  be  refused  by  the  Cheungs 
themselves  ;  to  make  her  a  mistress  would  seem  cruel 
and  hard.  To-day  I  have  called  her,  and  she  is  indeed 
lovely  and  gifted  with  great  ability,  a  fitting  sister  for 
the  Princess.  Because  of  this  I  have  adopted  her  and 
have  decided  to  wed  them  both  to  Yang  So-yoo. 
What  do  you  think  of  it  ?  " 

The  Emperor  was  greatly  pleased  and  congratu- 
lated her,  saying :  "  This  is  a  right  and  noble 
decision,  and  wide  as  the  sky  in  its  justice.  In  such 
generous  treatment  and  bountiful  favour  as  this  no 
one  has  ever  equalled  my  mother." 

Then  the  Empress  called  Cheung  See  so  that  she 
might  meet  the  Emperor,  as  she  was  now  his  sister. 
He  made  her  come  up  and  sit  upon  the  dais,  while  he 
said  to  the  Dowager  :  "  Since  Cheung  See  has  now 
become  a  sister  of  the  Emperor,  why  should  she  still 
wear  the  dress  of  the  common  people  ?  " 

The  Empress  replied :  '•'  As  there  is  no  command 

197 


/ 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

of  the  Emperor  to  that  effect  she  dedined  to  put  on 
ceremonial  robes." 

Then  the  Emperor  said  to  the  chief  of  the  palace 
ladies-in-waiting  :  "  Bring  a  roll  of  figured  silken 
paper."  This  Chin  See,  the  phoenix,  brought.  The 
Emperor  raised  the  pen  and  made  as  if  to  write. 
Then  he  said  to  the  Empress  Dowager  :  "  Since  you 
have  already  made  Cheung  See  a  princess,  you  must, 
of  course,  give  her  the  family  name  of  our  house." 

The  Dowager  replied  :  "I  thought  at  first  to  do 
so,  but  learning  that  Justice  Cheung  and  his  wife  are 
old  people,  and  that  they  have  no  other  children,  I 
felt  desirous  on  their  behalf  that  she  should  carry  on 
their  family  name,  and  so  I  decided  to  leave  her  sur- 
name as  it  is." 

Then  the  Emperor  wrote  the  following  in  large 
characters  with  his  own  hand.  "  I  approve  of  the 
divine  wish  of  Her  Majesty  the  Empress  Dowager, 
and  record  Cheung  See  to  be  her  adopted  daughter. 
Her  name  is  Princess  Yong-yang,  or  Blossom." 
When  he  had  written  this  he  stamped  it  with  a  pair 
of  palace  seals  and  gave  it  to  Cheung  See,  and  he 
ordered  the  palace  maids  to  dress  her  in  royal  robes. 

Cheung  See  descended  from  the  dais  and  ex- 
pressed her  thanks. 

The  Emperor  then  decided  the  order  of  prece- 
dence between  Princess  Orchid  and  Princess  Blossom. 
Blossom  was  a  year  the  senior  of  Nan-yang,  but  she 
would  not  have  thought  of  taking  precedence  of  her. 

The  Empress  said  :  "  Princess  Blossom  is  now  my 
daughter,  and  for  the  elder  to  be  first  and  the  younger 
second  is  the  proper  order.  There  is  no  readjusting 
of  the  place  between  brothers  and  sisters." 

198 


Yang's  Supreme  Regret 

Blossom  bowed  low,  and  touching  her  brow  to  the 
ground,  said  :  "  The  order  appointed  pertains  only 
to  the  future,  why  should  we  not  ignore  it  to-day  ?  " 

The  Dowager  said  :  "In  the  time  of  the  Spring 
and  Autumn  Classic,  the  wife  of  Cho-chij  although 
the  daughter  of  Prince  Chin-moon,  gave  up  her 
place  to  the  first  wife  who  was  chosen.  Much  more 
should  my  daughter,  as  you  are  her  elder  sister,  give 
up  without  a  question." 

Still  Blossom  persisted  long  in  declining  the  place. 

Then  the  Dowager  settled  it :  "  We  have  decided, 
and  it  is  settled  according  to  seniority."  And  from 
that  time  forth  all  in  the  palace  called  her  Princess 
Blossom.  The  Empress  showed  the  verses  that  the 
two  had  written  to  the  Emperor,  and  he  praised  them, 
saying  :  "  They  are  both  very  pretty,  but  Blossom's 
verse  has  followed  the  order  of  the  Book  of  Poetry 
and  places  all  the  credit  with  Orchid.  She  has 
observed  the  highest  refinements  of  good  form." 

"  True,"   replied  the  Dowager. 

The  Emperor  again  said  :  "  Since  you  love  Blos- 
som so  greatly,  for  truly  nothing  was  ever  before 
seen  equal  to  it,  I  too  have  a  favour  to  ask  of  you." 
He  then  told  of  the  palace-maid  Phoenix,  and  of  what 
had  taken  place  in  regard  to  her  affair.  Said  he  :  "  Her 
case  is  indeed  a  very  pitiful  one.  Though  her  father 
died  from  his  own  fault,  her  forefathers  were  all 
faithful  ministers  of  state.  If  we  take  all  the  circum- 
stances into  account  and  make  her  a  secondary  wife 
to  Yang,  would  it  not  be  a  kindness  on  your  part  ?  I 
pray  you  so  to  do." 

The  Dowager  then  looked  toward  the  two  prin- 
cesses, and  Orchid  said  :  "  The  palace-maid  Phoenix 

199 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

told  me  her  stgry  some  time  ago.  She  and  1  are  now 
fast  frieiids  and  never  wish  to  part.  Even  though 
you  should  not  consent  to  order  it,  my  wish  would 
already  be  recorded  thus." 

Then  the  Empress  Dowager  called  Phoenix  and 
said  to  her  ;  "  The  Princess  desires  that  you  should 
keep  each  other  company  through  life  and  unto 
death.  I  therefore  appoint  you  *a  secondary  wife  to 
General  Yang,  so  that  your  wishes  may  come  to  pass. 
In  future  let  all  your  heart  go  into  repaying  the 
Princess  for  her  kindness  to  you." 

Chin  See,  overcome  with  gratitude,  shed  tears 
and  spoke  her  thanks. 

The  Empress  went  on  :  "  The  marriage  of  the  two 
Princesses  is  now  happily  decided  upon,  and  a  jay  bird 
of  good  omen  comes  to  confirm  it.  I  have  already  had 
the  Princesses  write  for  me,  and  now  that  you,  too, 
have  found  a  place  of  refuge  and  have  the  same  happy 
prospect  in  view,  you  must  write  for  me  as  well." 

At  once  Chin  See  wrote  and  handed  her  verse  to 
the  Empress.  It  read  : 

"  The  happy  jay  that  shouts  his  mirth 
Athwart  the  Palace  halls. 
Has  seen  the  spring  on  gilded  wing. 
Step  forth  within  his  walls. 

So,  too,  the  humble  phoenix  bird 

Will  long  no  more  to  roam. 
But  with  the  four,  she'll  meet  once  more, 

And  join  the  happy  home." 

The  Empress  along  with  the  Emperor  read  the 
verses  and  in  delight  said  :   "  Even  Sa  Do-on  who 

200 


Yang's  Supreme  Regret 

wrote  concerning  the  willow  catkins  could  not  sur- 
pass this.  The  verse  also  follows  the  Book  of  Poetry 
and  draws  a  clear  distinction  between  the  first  and 
second  wife,  most  sweet  and  becoming." 

Princess  Orchid  said  :  "  The  subject  and  material 
from  which  this  verse  is  drawn  are  limited,  and  we 
two  sisters  had  already  written  all  that  was  to  be  said 
about  it.  Poor  Chin  See  had  nothing  left  on  which  to 
place  her  hand,  and  yet  how  pretty  it  is." 

The  Dowager  replied  :  "  Since  ancient  times  the 
most  noted  writers  among  women  were  Pan  Heui, 
Chai  Nyo,  Princess  Tak-moon  and  Sa  Do -on,  these 
four  only.  Now  three  girls  of  unsurpassed  ability 
meet  in  one  and  the  same  dwelling-place.  It  is  surely 
a  marvellous  sign." 

Orchid  replied  :  "  Princess  Blossom's  waiting- 
maid,  Cloudlet,  is  also  greatly  gifted  with  the  pen." 

At  this  point  the  day  began  to  draw  late  and  the 
Emperor  withdrew  to  the  outer  palace.  The  two 
Princesses  retired  and  slept  in  their  rooms,  and  when 
at  the  earliest  dawn  the  cocks  crew.  Blossom  went  in 
and  made  her  salutation  to  the  mother,  and  asked 
permission  to  withdraw,  saying :  "  When  your 
child  came  into  the  Palace,  my  parents  must  certainly 
have  been  anxious  and  full  of  wonder.  May  I  please 
withdraw  for  a  little,  see  them,  and  make  my  boast 
to  all  my  kin  of  the  grace  of  your  High  Majesty  and 
the  lovingkindness  and  beauty  of  my  sister  Orchid  ? 
Kindly  grant  me  this  favour." 

The  Empress  said :  "  My  child,  how  can  you  think 
of  leaving  me  so  easily  ?  I  have  something  to  consult 
about  with  your  mother,  and  so  shall  make  request 
that  she  come  here  in  audience  instead." 

201 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

The  Cheungs,  when  they  heard  what  the  servant 
had  come  to  tell,  were  somewhat  relieved  from  their 
fears,  and  a  feeling  of  thankfulness  took  possession 
of  them.  Suddenly  the  command  came  for  the  lady 
Cheung  to  report  in  the  palace. 

The  Empress  met  her,  took  her  by  the  hand,  and 
said  :  "  My  taking  possession  of  your  daughter  is  not 
only  because  I  love  her  beautyj  but  for  the  sake  of 
Princess  Orchid's  marriage.  Once  having  seen  her 
lovely  face  I  can  never  let  her  go  again,  so  I  have 
made  her  my  adopted  daughter  and  the  elder  sister 
of  Orchid.  My  thought  is  that  in  a  former  existence 
she  may  have  been  my  daughter,  and  that  she  has 
now  come  to  be  yours.  Since  Blossom  is  a  Princess, 
one  ought  really  to  give  her  the  name  of  the  Imperial 
household,  but  I  have  thought  of  your  having  no 
son,  and  so  have  not  changed  her  name.  You  will 
know  by  this  how  deeply  I  love  you." 

The  lady  Cheung  could  not  express  the  thanks  that 
filled  her  soul.  She  bowed  low  and  said  :  "  I,  your 
humble  subject,  had  a  daughter  born  to  me  late  in 
life  whom  I  loved  as  one  loves  only  gems  and  pearls. 
Her  marriage  proposals  failed  of  fulfilment  and  we 
sent  back  the  bridegroom's  presents.  My  soul  lost 
all  its  sense  of  life,  and  my  bones  seemed  broken 
within  me.  My  one  wish  was  to  die  quickly  and  no 
longer  see  her  sad  and  desolate  plight.  Unexpectedly 
the  dear  Princess  came  to  our  home  and  bent  her 
lovely  form  to  our  low  conditions,  making  friends 
with  my  humble  daughter.  Then  she  took  her  with 
her  to  the  Palace  and  made  her  the  recipient  of  un- 
dreamed of  honours.  This  is  indeed  making  green 
leaves  to  sprout  forth  on  the  dry  tree,  and  waters  to 

202 


Yang's  Supreme  Regret 

flow  afresh  along  the  parched  bed  of  the  stream.  All 
my  heart  and  soul  and  strength  would  go  forth  to 
requite,  if  possible,  one  of  the  thousand  favours  and 
kindnesses  of  your  Majesty,  but  my  husband  is  an 
old  man  and  has  many  ailments  of  body.  While  his 
heart  would  desire  it,  still  he  is  too  old  to  enter  upon 
the  duties  of  office,  and  so  make  some  small  return. 
I,  too,  am  feeble  and  am  already  a  neighbour  of  the 
spirit  world,  so  that  I  could  not  serve  as  palace- 
woman  even  to  do  menial  labour.  What  can  we 
possibly  do  to  show  our  gratitude  for  the  kindness 
heaped  upon  us  by  your  Imperial  Majesty  ?  The 
only  way  I  know  is  to  let  the  grateful  tears  fall  as 
rain."  She  arose  and  bowed  again,  and  then  pros- 
trated herself  and  wept  till  her  sleeves  were  soiled 
with  tear-drops. 

The  Empress,  moved  with  pity,  sighed  and  said  : 
"  Since  Blossom  is  now  my  daughter  your  ladyship 
must  never  take  her  away." 

The  lady  Cheung  replied  :  "  How  could  I  think  of 
taking  her  away  from  you  ?  But  the  fact  that  we 
cannot  meet  together  and  speak  the  praises  of  all  your 
Majesty's  worth  is  my  only  disappointment." 

Here  the  Dowager  laughed  and  said  :  "  Before 
the  marriage  ceremony  she  may  not  go  out,  but  after 
that,  of  course,  she  may  go.  Do  not  be  anxious 
about  that.  After  the  wedding  Princess  Orchid  shall 
be  put  into  your  care,  too,  and  you  must  look  upon 
her  just  as  I  do  upon  Blossom."  She  called  Orchid 
that  she  and  lady  Cheung  should  meet  again.  The 
lady  Cheung  several  times  spoke  of  her  regrets  at  the 
way  in  which  she  had  received  the  Princess  when 
she  came  to  call  at  her  home. 

203 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

The  Empress  said  :  "  I  have  heard  that  you  have 
among  your  waiting-maids  a  little  one  called  Cloudlet ; 
I  should  like  very  much  to  see  her," 

The  lady  then  summoned  Cloudlet,  who  came  in 
and  made  her  bow  before  her  Majesty. 

The  Empress  said  to  herself  :  "  Beautiful  she  is  !  " 
She  made  her  come  up  close  beside  her,  and  then 
said  to  her  :  "  I  have  heard  Orchid  say  that  you  are 
very  skilful  with  the  pen.  Will  you  not  write  some- 
thing for  me  ?  " 

Cloudlet  said  :  "  How  could  so  ignorant  a  person 
as  I  dare  to  write  before  your  High  Majesty  ?  But  I 
shall  try  to  do  my  best  as  you  command  me." 

The  Empress  opened  up  the  four  verses  that  had 
already  been  written  and  said  :  "  Can  you  equal 
these  ?  " 

Cloudlet  then  brought  her  ink  and  pens  and  with 
one  swift  dash  wrote  her  verse  and  handed  it  to  the 
Empress  Dowager.  It  read  : 

"  This  magpie  heart  of  mine 
Awakes  to  joys  untold, 
Shall  join  the  circle  superfine. 
And  both  its  wings  unfold. 

Ye  pretty  flowers  of  Chin, 

Behold  the  wondrous  sight, 
A  group  of  fairies  gathering  in 

From  all  their  scattered  flight." 

The  Empress  read  it,  showed  it  to  the  two  Princesses, 
and  said  :  "I  heard  before  that  the  lady  Ka  had 
great  skill,  but  who  would  have  dreamed  of  this  ?  " 

204 


Yang's  Supreme  Regret 

Princess  Orchid  remarked  :  "In  this  verse  she 
likens  herself  to  the  magpie  and  us  to  the  *  circle 
superfine.'  She  has  caught  the  spirit  of  the  old 
masters  and  reminds  one  of  the  songs  of  the  Book  of 
Poetry.  Her  thought  is  pretty  but  she  has  stolen  it 
from  the  ancients.  They  say  '  The  birds  of  heaven 
find  rest  with  man,  and  man  is  naturally  sorry  for  the 
birds,'  and  this  suggests  Cloudlet." 

The  Princess  again  said  :  "  The  chief  of  the  wait- 
ing-maids is  Chin  See  from  Wha-eum,  the  one  who 
decided  to  live  and  die  with  Cloudlet." 

Cloudlet  replied  :  "Is  this  not  Chin  See  who 
wrote  the  willow-song  ?  " 

Chin  See  gave  a  start  and  asked  :  "  From  whom 
did  you  ever  hear  of  my  willow-song  ?  " 

Cloudlet  made  answer  :  "  General  Yang  has  ever 
had  you  in  his  thoughts,  and  once  when  he  repeated 
this  verse  I  overheard  him." 

Chin  See,  with  a  sorrowful  countenance,  said  : 
"  And  so  General  Yang  has  not  forgotten  me  ?  " 

Cloudlet  replied  :  "  How  can  you  suggest  such  a 
thing  ?  The  General  carried  hidden  away  with  him 
these  verses  of  yours,  and  when  he  read  them  the 
tears  used  to  flow.  When  he  sang  them  he  sighed. 
How  is  it  that  you  alone  fail  to  know  his  loving 
heart  ?  " 

Chin  See  said :  "  If  the  General  has  the  same  love 
that  he  used  to  have,  then  this  humble  person,  though 
she  never  see  him  again,  can  die  happy."  Then  she 
told  of  his  verse  that  had  been  written  on  her  silken 
fan,  and  Cloudlet  said  :  "  The  hairpins  and  rings 
that  I  wear  were  won  for  me  on  that  day." 

Then  the  maids -in- waiting  gathered  and  reported, 

205 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

saying :  "  The  lady  Cheung  is  about  to  take  her 
departure." 

The  two  Princesses  went  in  and  waited  upon  her, 
while  the  Empress  Dowager  said  to  the  lady  Cheung  : 
"  In  a  little  time  Yang  the  Wanderer  will  make  his 
return  and  the  former  marriage  gifts  will  naturally 
be  sent  once  again  ;  but  to  receive  the  gifts  again 
that  were  once  sent  back  would  seem  poor  and  mean. 
On  the  other  hand,  Princess  Blossom  having  become 
my  daughter,  I  want  to  have  the  two  of  them  send 
theirs  at  one  and  the  same  time.  Will  your  ladyship 
give  consent  ?  " 

Then  the  lady  Cheung  bowed  low  to  the  earth 
and  said  :  "  How  can  your  humble  subject  dare  to 
do  otherwise  ?  Let  it  be  as  your  Imperial  Majesty 
suggests." 

The  Dowager  laughed  :  "  General  Yang  has  for 
the  sake  of  Blossom  more  than  three  times  refused  to 
do  my  bidding,  and  now  I  want  to  play  a  practical 
joke  on  him.  They  say  in  common  speech  :  '  The 
unpropitious  word  turns  out  to  be  propitious.'  You 
shall  wait  till  he  returns  and  then  say  that  Cheung 
See  has  suddenly  fallen  ill  and  died.  I  saw  in  the 
General's  letter  that  he  had  met  her  in  a  dream.  On 
the  first  day  of  the  ceremony  I  shall  be  amused  to 
see  if  he  will  know  her  or  not." 

The  lady  Cheung  received  the  command,  took  her 
departure,  and  returned.  The  daughter  saw  her  be- 
yond the  first  palace  entrance,  and  then  bowed  and 
spoke  her  farewell.  She  called  Cloudlet  and  told  her 
secretly  of  the  plan  to  deceive  the  General.  Cloudlet 
replied  :  "  I  have  been  a  fairy  and  I  have  been  an 
evil  spirit  to  deceive  him,  and  that  is  surely  enough. 

206 


Yang's  Supreme  Regret 

Would  it  not  be  mean  of  me  to  attempt  anything 
more  ?  " 

Cheung  See  replied  :  "  This  is  not  our  plan,  or 
our  affair,  but  the  Empress  Dowager's." 

Cloudlet  smothered  her  laughter  and  went  away 
smiling. 

At  this  time  General  Yang  had  made  his  soldiers 
drink  the  waters  of  the  White  Dragon  Lake  till  their 
health  returned  and  they  longed  for  battle.  The 
General  then  summoned  his  aides,  gave  them  their 
orders  and  made  them  march  forth  at  the  sound  of 
the  drum.  Just  at  this  moment  Chan-bo  received  the 
gem  sent  by  the  dancer  Swallow,  and  knowing  that 
General  Yang's  troops  had  passed  Pan-sa  valley,  he 
approached  the  General's  headquarters  in  a  state  of 
great  fear  and  talked  of  surrender.  The  various 
leaders  of  the  Tibetan  forces  took  Chan-bo,  bound 
him,  entered  General  Yang's  camp  and  there  sur- 
rendered. 

Once  again  Yang  drew  his  troops  up  in  order  and 
marched  into  the  capital,  stopped  the  plundermg  of 
the  city,  and  quieted  the  people.  He  then  went  up 
into  the  Kolyoon  Mountains  and  put  up  a  memorial 
tablet  with  a  record  of  the  power  and  goodness  of  the 
kingdom  of  the  Tangs.  Then  he  faced  about  with 
his  army,  sang  his  songs  of  victory,  and  returned 
home.  When  he  reached  Chin-joo  it  was  already 
autumn  ;  the  mountains  were  bare  and  the  earth 
dry  and  sear.  All  the  flowers  had  been  baptised  in 
death  and  sorrow.  The  wild  geese  piped  out  their 
sad  notes,  reminding  him  that  he  was  far  away  from 
home. 

207 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

The  General  spent  the  night  in  a  guest  house.  His 
mind  seemed  unrested  and  the  hours  long.  Sleep 
failed  him.  He  thought  in  his  heart :  "  It  is  already 
three  years  since  I  left  home  and  my  mother's  health 
cannot  be  as  it  has  always  been.  To  whom  can  she 
turn  for  protection  and  care  in  sickness  ?  To  what 
time  shall  I  put  off  my  morning  and  evening  salu- 
tations to  her  ?  To-day  the  land  is  quiet,  war  has 
ceased,  but  my  desire  to  wait  on  and  serve  my  mother 
is  not  yet  satisfied.  I  have  failed  in  the  serious  part  of 
life's  duty  and  man's  first  requirement.  For  several 
years  I  have  been  busy  with  State  affairs,  have  not 
married,  and  have  found  it  difficult  to  hold  my  en- 
gagement with  Cheung  See.  The  various  matters  in 
which  I  have  been  disappointed  proved  the  truth  of 
the  old  saying  :  '  Eight  or  nine  times  out  of  ten 
comes  disappointment.'  Now  I  have  quieted  five 
thousand  li  of  territory,  and  have  received  the  sur- 
render of  a  million  rebels,  so  that  my  name  will  be 
heralded  abroad  as  great.  His  Majesty  will  doubtless 
appoint  me  to  some  high  office  as  a  reward  for  my 
many  labours.  If  I  decline  office  and  ask  instead  that 
my  request  to  marry  Cheung  See  be  granted,  I  won- 
der if  consent  will  be  forthcoming  ?  " 

Sad  were  his  thoughts,  and  thus  did  his  mind  seek 
relief,  so  he  laid  his  head  upon  his  pillow  and  fell 
asleep.  In  a  dream  his  body  took  wing  and  flew  up  to 
heaven.  From  the  Palace  of  the  Seven  Precious 
Things,  [40]  that  shone  with  glittering  splendour  and 
was  encircled  with  clouds  of  glory,  two  waiting- 
maids  came  out  to  meet  him  and  said  :  "  Cheung  See 
is  calling  for  your  Excellency." 

So  the  General  followed  them  and  entered.  In  the 

208 


Yang's  Supreme  Regret 

wide  court  the  flowers  were  in  bloom.  Three  fairies 
were  seen  seated  in  an  upper  pavilion  of  white 
marble.  Their  dresses  were  like  those  of  the  waiting- 
maids  of  the  palace  and  their  eyebrows  lined  off 
with  soft  touches  of  the  fairy's  wand.  Their  eyes 
were  luminous  and  a  halo  of  light  encircled  their 
forms.  They  leaned  upon  the  railing  and  dallied 
playfully  with  each  other,  having  in  their  hands  buds 
of  fragrant  flowers.  When  the  General  entered  they 
rose  from  their  seats,  made  way  for  him,  and  when 
he  was  seated  the  leading  fairy  asked  : 

"  Since  your  Excellency  said  good-bye  have  you 
been  well  all  the  time  ?  " 

The  General  rubbed  his  eyes  and  looked  peeringly, 
and  lo !  it  was  the  lady  who  had  talked  to  him  about 
the  tunes  on  the  harp,  Cheung  See.  In  fear  and  glad- 
ness he  tried  to  speak,  but  the  words  refused  to  come. 

The  fairy  then  said  :  "  Since  I  have  departed  from 
the  world  of  men  and  have  come  to  dwell  in  heaven 
with  its  delights,  I  find  that  all  that  has  happened 
belongs  to  my  former  existence.  Though  your  Excel- 
lency meet  and  see  my  parents  you  will  find  no  news 
from  me  awaiting  you."  And  she  pointed  to  the  two 
fairies  at  her  side,  saying  :  "  This  is  the  Weaving 
Damsel  and  the  other  is  the  Incense  Angel.  They  are 
united  to  you  by  the  affinity  of  the  world  life. 
Please  do  not  think  of  me  any  more  but  think  only  of 
them.  If  you  are  joined  first  to  them  by  the  happy 
contract,  I,  too,  will  find  a  place  of  consolation." 

The  General  looked  at  the  two  fairies,  and  the  one 
who  sat  on  the  lower  seat  was  known  to  him,  but 
he  could  not  recall  her  name.  Suddenly  the  drum 
sounded  and  he  awoke,  and  it  was  only  a  dream. 

209  o 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

He  thought  over  what  he  had  seen,  and  he  realised 
that  it  was  not  a  happy  omen,  so  he  sighed  and  said  : 
"  Cheung  See  is  surely  dead ;  if  not  why  should  I 
have'  had  so  unpropitious  a  dream  ?  "  Again  he 
thought :  "  On  the  other  hand,  if  we  think  specially 
of  a  thing  we  dream  of  it ;  perhaps,  because  of  my 
thinking  so  much  of  her,  I  have  so  dreamed.  Moon- 
light's recommendation,  and  the  priestess  Too-ryon's 
serving  as  go-between,  were,  I  am  sure,  according  to 
the  leading  of  the  Mother  of  the  Moon.  If  our  pre- 
destined affinity  be  not  attained  to,  and  if  the  living 
and  the  dead  are  thus  to  contradict  each  other,  then 
surely  God  must  be  uncertain  and  ignorant  of  the 
laws  that  rule.  It  is  said  that  the  unlucky  omen  be- 
comes the  lucky.  I  wonder  if  that  will  find  fulfilment 
in  this  dream  of  mine  ?  " 

After  a  prolonged  march  the  leading  forces  reached 
the  capital  and  the  Emperor  came  out  as  far  as  the 
River  Wee  to  meet  and  welcome  him.  The  General, 
wearing  a  green  helmet  with  phoenix  plume  orna- 
ments, and  gilded  armour,  rode  a  Persian  war-horse, 
and  there  were  banners  and  battle-axes  in  front, 
behind,  and  extending  out  on  each  side  of  him.  King 
Chan-bo  was  drawn  along  in  a  cage  in  advance  of  him, 
while  thirty-six  princes  of  Tibet,  each  bearing  his 
tribute,  followed  in  the  rear.  The  majesty  of  the  sight 
was  something  never  before  seen.  Onlookers  lined 
each  side  of  the  road  for  a  hundred  /«,  and  within  the 
walls  of  the  capital  there  was  a  deserted  city. 

The  General  dismounted  from  his  horse  and 
bowed  low,  while  the  Emperor  took  him  by  the  hand, 
raised  him  up,  and  spoke  kindly  to  him  concerning 
all  his  hard  labours  ;    praised  him  for  his   great 

2IO 


Yang's  Supreme  Regret 

success,  and  for  the  merit  he  had  won.  He  then  had  an 
order  issued  similar  to  that  which  related  to  Kwak 
Poon-yang,  of  ancient  times,  appointing  to  him  a 
certain  district  of  territory  and  making  him  a  king 
with  great  and  rich  rewards. 

These  the  General  emphatically  and  sincerely  de- 
clined. Finally  the  Emperor  yielded  and  issued  a 
special  order  making  Yang  the  Wanderer  General- 
issimo ,  and  creating  him  Prince  of  Wee .  The  remaining 
gifts  and  presents  were  so  many  that  it  is  impossible 
to  record  them. 

General  Yang  then  followed  the  Imperial  car, 
entered  the  palace  and  gave  thanks  for  all  the  favours 
and  rewards  showered  upon  him. 

The  Emperor,  in  response,  gave  command  that  a 
great  feast  celebrating  peace  should  be  prepared,  and 
that  the  gifts  and  prizes  should  be  displayed  before 
those  assembled.  He  ordered,  also,  that  Yang's  por- 
trait should  be  given  a  place  in  the  Temple  of  Famous 
Men. 

The  General  then  withdrew  from  the  palace  and 
betook  himself  to  the  home  of  Justice  Cheung.  There 
he  found  all  the  family  and  relatives  gathered  in  the 
outer  rooms.  They  met  him,  bowed  before  him,  and 
offered  him  their  congratulations.  When  he  had  in- 
quired for  the  Justice  and  her  ladyship.  Thirteen 
made  reply  :  "  Uncle  and  aunt  were  holding  out 
well  until  after  my  cousin's  death.  They  were  so 
heart-broken  and  distressed  over  that  that  they  have 
fallen  ill,  and  their  strength  is  not  what  it  used  to  be. 
That  is  the  reason  they  do  not  come  out  to  the  outer 
court  to  greet  you.  My  wish  is  that  you  let  me  go  in 
with  you  to  the  inner  quarters." 

211 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

The  General,  when  he  heard  this,  behaved  as  if  he 
were  mad  or  drunk  and  could  make  no  intelligent 
inquiry.  After  the  lapse  of  some  time  he  returned 
to  consciousness  and  inquired  :  "  Who  is  dead  ?  " 

Thirteen  made  answer  :  "  My  uncle  never  had  a 
son  ;  he  had  one  daughter  only,  and  God's  way  with 
him  has  been  very  hard  indeed.  Thus  has  he  arrived 
at  this  condition.  Is  it  not  pitiftil  ?  When  you  go  in 
please  do  not  say  anything  about  it." 

Then  Yang  gave  a  great  shudder,  and  overcome  by 
untold  distress  could  scarcely  get  his  breath  or  utter 
a  syllable.  Tears  streamed  from  his  eyes. 

Thirteen  comforted  him,  saying  :  "  Even  though 
your  marriage  contract  was  made  firm  as  rocks  and 
tempered  steel,  still  the  luck  of  this  house  is  so  un- 
propitious  and  bad  that  it  has  turned  out  otherwise. 
I  hope  that  you  will  do  the  right  thing  and  exercise 
yourself  to  comfort  the  old  people." 

Yang  wiped  away  his  tears,  thanked  him,  and 
they  went  in  together  to  the  Justice  and  the  lady 
Cheung.  They  were  seemingly  happy  over  the  con- 
gratulations poured  out  upon  Yang,  and  made  no 
reference  to  the  fact  that  their  daughter  was  dead. 

Yang  said  to  them  :  "  Your  humble  son-in-law, 
by  good  fortune  and  with  the  prestige  of  the  State 
behind  him,  has  fallen  heir  to  great  gifts  from  his 
Imperial  Majesty.  I  had  just  declined  these  with  the 
one  earnest  request  that  his  Majesty  should  change 
his  mind  and  let  me  fulfil  the  marriage  contract  that 
I  had  entered  upon,  but  already  the  dew  of  the  morn- 
ing has  dried  up  and  the  colours  of  the  springtime 
have  faded.  How  can  life  and  death  overtake  one  thus 
without  breaking  the  heart  ?  " 

212 


Yang's  Supreme  Regret 

The  Justice  said  in  reply  :  "  Life  and  death  are 
wrapped  in  destiny ;  gladness  and  sorrow,  too,  aid 
destiny  and  are  the  appointments  of  God.  What  is 
the  use  of  talking  about  or  discussing  them  ?  To-day 
the  whole  household  has  met  for  a  great  celebration  ; 
let  us  not  talk  of  an3rthing  that  grieves  or  is  sad." 

Thirteen  frequently  made  signs  and  winks  in  the 
direction  of  Yang  so  that  he  ceased  to  say  anjrthing 
more  about  the  matter,  but  went  out  into  the  park. 

Cloudlet  came  down  the  steps  to  meet  him,  and 
when  he  saw  her  it  was  like  seeing  the  daughter. 
Grief  overcame  him  once  more  and  his  tears  began 
to  fall. 

Cloudlet  knelt  down  and  comforted  him,  saying  : 
"  Why  should  your  Highness  be  sad  to-day  ?  I 
humbly  beg  of  you  to  set  your  mind  free,  dry  your 
tears  and  hear  what  I  have  to  say.  Our  maiden  was 
originally  a  fairy  from  heaven,  who  was  sent  to  earth 
for  a  little  period  of  exile,  and  the  day  she  returned 
home  to  heaven  she  said  to  your  humble  servant : 
'  You,  too,  must  cut  yourself  off  from  General  Yang 
and  follow  me.  Since  I  have  already  departed  from 
the  world  of  men,  if  you  were  to  go  back  to  General 
Yang  it  would  mean  leaving  me.  One  of  these  days 
he  will  return  home,  and  should  he  think  lovingly  of 
me  or  sorrow  at  my  loss  you  must  give  him  this 
message  :  "  The  sending  back  of  the  wedding  gifts 
indicated  my  departure.  How  much  more  the  re- 
sentment that  I  felt  over  the  hearing  of  the  harp.  Do 
not  be  too  sad  or  anxious.  If  you  sorrow  overmuch 
for  me  it  will  mean  opposition  on  your  part  to  the 
Emperor's  command,  and  a  desire  to  do  your  own 
will.  It  will  mean  damage  to  the  one  who  is  dead. 

213 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Besides,  if  you  should  pour  out  a  libation  at  my  grave 
or  go  there  to  wail  it  would  proclaim  me  as  a  girl 
whose  life  had  not  been  correct  and  would  distress 
my  soul  in  hades.  This  too  I  will  add  :  his  Majesty 
will  await  your  return  and  will  again  make  proposals 
of  your  marriage  with  the  Princess.  I  have  heard  it 
said  that  Kwan-jo's  dignity  and  virtue  were  a  fitting 
mate  for  the  superior  man.  My  hope  is  that  you  will 
willingly  accede  to  the  command  of  the  Emperor, 
and  not  fall  into  rebellion."  Tell  him  this,  will  you,' 
This  is  what  she  said,"  added  Cloudlet. 

The  General  on  hearing  it  was  greatly  overcome 
and  said  :  "  Even  though  the  dear  girl's  wishes  were 
such,  how  can  I  be  without  sorrow  ?  To  know  that 
she  thought  thus  of  me  at  the  last  moment  makes  me 
feel  that  though  I  die  ten  times  I  can  never  repay  so 
great  a  devotion  as  hers." 

Then  he  told  the  dream  he  had  had  in  the  camp 
and  Cloudlet  wept  and  said  :  "  Doubtless  she  dwells 
with  God  before  the  altar  of  Incense,  and,  when  your 
Excellency  has  lived  out  your  years  on  earth,  you  will 
meet  again  and  fulfil  your  happy  contract.  Do  not 
sorrow,  please,  or  injure  your  health." 

Yang  asked :  "  Did  she  say  anything  beyond  this  ?" 

Cloudlet  made  answer  :  "  She  did  say  something 
to  herself,  but  I  dare  not  repeat  it  with  my  lips." 

"  What  you  heard,"  said  the  General,  "  you 
must  tell  me  now  and  make  no  concealment." 

Then  Cloudlet  said  :  "  The  young  lady  said 
finally  to  me,  *  You,  Cloudlet,  and  I,  are  one  and 
the  same  person.  If  his  Excellency  does  not  forget 
me  and  desires  you  as  he  desires  me,  and  does  not 
throw  you  away  even  though  I  descend  into  the 

214 


i-J-f/ 

.tf 

''m 

»S 

^ 

a 

'J- 

r>^>s^j^^-^;^^ 


IGDI/gfflllcSPll<5c>  ||(3g>ll^ll<sg)||g:a|l<^? 


The  Cloudy  Dream  Land  :  Cloudlet's  Sorrow 


Yang's  Supreme  Regret 

earth,  it  will  be  as  though  I  were  blessed  and  loved 
of  him.'  " 

Yang  was  greatly  moved  by  this,  and  said  :  "  How 
could  I  ever  think  of  putting  you  away,  my  Cloudlet  ? 
How  much  the  more  now  with  the  dear  one's  wishes 
so  expressed.  Though  I  should  marry  with  the  Weav- 
ing Damsel  or  be  wedded  to  the  Water  Fairy,  I  would 
never,  never  put  you  away." 


215 


Chapter  XIII 
The  Awakening 


THE  day  following,  the  Emperor  called 
General  Yang  and  said  to  him :  "  In  regard 
to  the  marriage  of  the  Princess,  the  Empress 
Dowager  issued  a  very  urgent  command  that  at  first 
quite  distressed  me,  but  learning  later  that  the 
daughter  of  Justice  Cheung  was  dead,  and  that  the 
Princess's  wedding  had  waited  long  for  your  return, 
I  feel  that,  even  though  your  thoughts  be  vnth 
Cheung  See,  the  dead  are  the  dead,  and  no  power  on 
earth  can  restore  them.  You  are  a  young  man  and 
belong  to  the  highest  rank  and  therefore  need  a  wife. 
How  can  you  yourself  see  to  such  matters  as  food 
and  dress  ?  A  minister,  too,  of  your  standing  while 
he  holds  office  ought  not  to  remain  unmarried .  You  are 
also  Lord  and  Prince  of  Wee,  and  at  the  ancestral 
grave  need  your  wife  to  pour  out  the  second  libation 
which  ought  not  to  be  lacking  from  the  sacrifice.  I 
have  already  made  the  necessary  preparations  within 
the  Palace  and  am  now  awaiting  the  decision.  Do  you 
still  oppose  the  request,  and  refuse  to  marry  the 
Princess  ?  " 

Yang  bowed  low  and  said  :  "  My  sins  of  rebellion 
merit  that  I  fall  under  the  headsman's  axe,  but  your 
Majesty  has  granted  me  a  second  opportunity  and 
has  so  kindly  dealt  with  me,  that  I  am  moved  to 
accede  and  act  as  though  I  were  fearless  of  all  pre- 
sumption. My  repeated  refusals,  heretofore,  were 
because  of  my  regard  for  the  laws  of  honour,  and  I 

216 


The  Awakening 

could  not  help  myself  ;  but  now  that  Cheung  See  is 
dead,  why  should  I  offer  any  objection,  except  to  say 
this,  that  my  social  standing  is  insufficient  for  it, 
my  gifts  are  mediocre,  and  I  am  in  no  way  suited 
to  be  the  Imperial  son-in-law." 

His  Majesty,  highly  delighted,  at  once  issued  an 
order  to  the  Master  of  Ceremonies  to  have  a  lucky  day 
selected  and  reported,  and  later  the  Chief  Geomancer 
announced  the  fifteenth  day  of  the  ninth  moon  as  the 
day  agreed  upon. 

The  Emperor  said  to  General  Yang  :  "  The  other 
day,  when  we  had  not  fully  decided  about  the  wed- 
ding, I  did  not  tell  you  all,  but  now  that  this  is  settled 
I  want  to  say  that  I  have  two  sisters,  both  refined 
and  highly  gifted,  and  since  we  can  never  possibly  find 
such  another  one  as  thee,  I  have  been  commanded 
by  the  Dowager  to  have  my  two  sisters  put  under 
your  care." 

Suddenly  General  Yang  remembered  the  dream 
that  he  had- had  in  the  guest-room  of  the  camp,  and 
his  mind  was  greatly  disturbed  when  he  thought 
how  unearthly  it  was.  He  bowed  low  and  said  : 
"  Since  you  have  chosen  me  as  the  Imperial  son-in- 
law,  I  have  tried  to  make  my  escape  by  all  possible 
means,  but  could  find  no  way;  I  have  endeavoured 
to  nm  off  but  the  road  has  been  blocked.  I  did  not 
know  what  to  do,  and  now  your  proposition  that  two 
Princesses  should  serve  this  one  man  is  something 
never  dreamed  of  since  the  world  began.  How  can  I 
venture  to  accept  any  such  proposal  ?  " 

The  Emperor  replied  :  "  Your  service  for  the 
State  is  of  the  very  highest  order,  and  there  is  no 
possible  way  open  to  reward  you  as  you  deserve. 

217 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

That  is  why  I  propose  that  my  two  sisters  should 
serve  you  together.  Also  the  love  of  these  two  for 
one  another  is  a  born  instinct  with  them.  When 
they  rise  each  follows  the  other ;  when  they  are 
seated  each  finds  support  in  the  other  ;  and  their 
one  wish  is  never,  never  to  part,  so  that  their  being 
given  in  marriage  to  the  same  man  is  not  only  their 
own  desire,  but  the  wish  of  her  Majesty  the  Dowager 
as  well.  Please  do  not  refuse  it.  Also  there  is  the 
palace-maid,  Chin  See,  a  daughter  of  a  house  that  has 
been  for  generations  high  in  office.  She  has  beauty, 
too,  and  ability,  and  is  specially  gifted  with  the  pen, 
while  the  Princess  regards  her  as  her  good  right 
hand,  and  treats  her  as  her  very  own.  On  the  day 
of  the  wedding  she  desires  to  make  her  her  married 
maid-in-waiting,  and  this  too  I  am  to  inform  you 
of." 

The  General  again  rose  and  expressed  his  thanks. 

Cheung  See  had  already  been  a  Princess  in  the 
palace  for  several  days.  Her  service  on  the  Empress's 
behalf  had  been  performed  with  all  her  heart.  She, 
along  with  Princess  Orchid  and  Chin  See,  were  like 
born  sisters,  and  in  return  the  Dowager  loved  her 
dearly. 

The  time  for  the  marriage  being  now  at  hand  she 
said  quietly  to  the  Empress  :  "At  first  when  you 
decided  the  place  of  precedence  for  Orchid  and  me, 
you  made  me  sit  in  the  upper  seat,  which  was  a  very 
presumptuous  thing  on  my  part,  and  yet  to  refuse  it 
I  feared  might  wound  the  love  and  tenderness  of  my 
dearest  Orchid.  So  I  yielded,  and  did  as  your  Majesty 
commanded  me  ;    but  this  was  never  my  wish  or 

218 


The  Awakening 

desire.  Now  when  we  are  united  to  General  Yang,  it 
will  never  do  for  Orchid  to  decline  the  first  place.  My 
desire  is  that  your  Majesty  and  the  Emperor  will 
kindly  think  of  the  proper  form  and  arrange  it  so  that 
I  shall  be  happy  according  to  my  station,  and  not  be 
a  cause  of  confusion  in  the  home." 

At  this  Orchid  replied :  "  Blossom's  accom- 
plishments and  ability  make  her  my  superior,  my 
teacher,  and  though  it  be  a  '  gate  of  honour  '  in 
question,  I  shall,  just  as  the  wife  of  Cho  Che-wee 
resigned  her  place,  resign  mine.  Since  we  have  already 
become  elder  and  yotinger  sisters,  how  can  we  again 
raise  the  question  of  rank  ?  Though  I  become  the 
second  wife  I  shall  still  not  lose  the  reality  that  I  am 
the  Emperor's  daughter,  but  if  I  am  pushed  up  to 
the  first  place,  wherein,  mother  dear,  will  lie  the 
purpose  of  your  adopting  Blossom  ?  If  my  sister 
declines  in  my  favour,  I  shall  not  wish  then  to  become 
a  member  of  General  Yang's  household." 

Then  the  Empress  said  to  the  Emperor  :  "  How 
shall  we  decide  the  matter  ?  " 

The  Emperor's  reply  was  :  "  Orchid's  wish,  as 
she  expresses  it,  is  from  the  heart ;  and  yet  from 
ancient  days  till  the  present  time,  I  never  heard  of 
such  a  thing.  Please  take  note,  however,  of  her  hum- 
ble and  beautiful  spirit  and  yield  to  her  on  the  matter," 

The  Empress  replied  :  "  You  are  right."  At  once 
she  issued  a  command  making  Princess  Blossom 
[41]  the  left  hand  wife  of  Prince  Wee,  while  Princess 
Orchid  was  made  the  right  hand  wife,  and  because 
Chin  See  was  the  daughter  of  a  high  official  she  was 
made  the  highest  wife  of  second  grade. 

Since  ancient  times  the  marriage  of  a  Princess  had 

219 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

always  been  celebrated  outside  of  the  palace,  but  on 
this  occasion  the  Dowager  decided  that  it  should  be 
held  within  the  Imperial  precincts. 

When  the  happy  day  came,  General  Yang,  dressed 
in  Imperial  robes  and  jewelled  belt,  went  through  the 
ceremony  with  the  two  Princesses.  The  splendour 
and  magnificence  of  the  scene  are  impossible  to 
describe.  When  all  the  rites  were  completed  they  sat 
themselves  down  on  the  embroidered  cushions,  and 
Chin  See  appeared,  made  her  bow  and  was  led  before 
the  Princesses.  When  they  were  seated,  lo !  they  were 
like  three  fairies  gathered  before  him.  The  colours 
that  bedecked  them  reflected  the  brilliance  of  the 
clouds  ;  and  lights  and  shades  were  seen  in  a  thou- 
sand shimmering  patterns.  The  General  was  dazed 
by  the  brilliance  of  it,  and  uncertain  of  his  own  con- 
sciousness. He  wondered  if  he  were  amid  realities  or 
in  a  dream. 

That  night  he  shared  the  room  of  the  Princess 
Blossom  and  arose  early  in  the  morning  and  made  his 
obeisance  to  the  Empress. 

She  had  a  great  feast  spread,  at  which  both  the 
Emperor  and  the  reigning  Empress  were  present,  and 
the  whole  day  was  spent  in  rejoicing.  The  second 
night  he  spent  with  Princess  Orchid,  and  on  the 
third  he  went  to  Chin  See's  room. 

When  Chin  See  saw  him  she  began  to  weep. 

Yang  in  wonder  asked  what  she  meant :  "  To-day 
we  should  laugh  and  be  glad,  why  do  you  weep  ? 
What  do  these  tears  mean  ?  " 

Chin  See  made  answer  :  "  You  do  not  know  me, 
and  so  I  know  you  have  forgotten  who  I  am." 

Then  he  suddenly  recollected,  took  her  white 

220 


The  Wedding:  Wildgoose  and  Moonlight 


The  Awakening 

hand  in  his,  and  said  :    "  You  are  Chin  See  from 
Wha-eum,  are  you  not  ?  " 

Chin  See  choked  up  with  tears  and  could  make  no 
reply. 

The  General  said  :  "  I  thought  that  you  had  left 
us,  and  that  you  were  buried  beneath  the  sod,  but 
here  you  are  in  the  Palace.  We  parted  in  far  off  Wha- 
eum,  and  your  dear  home  was  broken  up  so  that  no 
one  dared  to  speak  of  it.  Since  my  flight  from  that 
inn,  not  a  day  has  passed  that  I  have  not  thought  of 
you.  But  I  thought  you  were  dead  and  never  im- 
agined that  we  should  meet  again.  To-day  comes  the 
fulfilment  of  our  contract,  which  I  never  dreamed 
could  come  to  pass."  Si^ 

Here  he  drew  from  his  pocket  the  verses  that  Chin 
See  had  written,  while  Chin  See  drew  from  her  bosom 
what  he  had  sent  her,  and  they  were  the  same  as  they 
had  despatched  to  each  other  on  that  day  of  first  ac- 
quaintance. Each  unwrapped  the  piece  of  paper,  and 
their  hearts  melted  at  the  sight  of  it  and  beat  a  tattoo 
in  their  bosoms. 

Chin  See  said  :  "  The  Willow  song  seals  the  con- 
tract that  we  made  so  long  ago.  I  did  not  know  that  a 
little  silken  fan,  too,  was  to  be  evidence  of  the  union 
that  is  consummated  to-day."  Then  she  opened  a 
lacquer  box  and  took  out  the  fan,  showed  it  to  General 
Yang,  and  told  him  about  it,  saying  :  "It  is  due 
entirely  to  the  kindness  and  favour  of  her  Imperial 
Majesty,  the  Empress  Dowager,  his  Majesty  the 
Emperor,  and  Princess  Orchid," 

General  Yang  said  :  "At  that  time  I  made  my 
escape  to  the  South  Mountain  and  when  I  came  back 
I  asked  of  your  whereabouts.  Some  said  you  were 

221 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

attached  to  the  palace  ;  some  that  you  had  been  re- 
moved to  a  distant  county  as  a  yamen  slave  ;  others 
that  you  had  not  escaped  from  the  general  destruction. 
I  did  not  know  the  exact  truth,  but  I  had. no  hope  and 
so  was  compelled  to  seek  marriage  elsewhere.  Always 
when  I  passed  Wha-eum  or  crossed  the  waters  of  the 
Wee  I  was  like  the  wild  bird  that  had  lost  its  mate. 
Now,  however,  through  the  Imperial  kindness,  we 
meet  again.  My  one  sorrow  of  heart  is  that  the  con- 
tract we  made  by  the  way  in  the  inn  should  have 
turned  out  the  contract  for  a  subordinate  wife.  To 
think  also  that  you  should  have  condescended  to  take 
so  humble  a  place  fills  me  with  shame." 

Chin  See  said  :  "I  was  not  unaware  of  my  ill- 
starred  home  and  its  prospects  when  I  sent  the  old 
nurse  to  the  inn,  and  it  was  with  the  thought  that  if 
you  took  me  it  might  be  even  as  a  subordinate  wife. 
Now  that  I  have  won  a  place,  second  only  to  my 
revered  Princesses,  I  am  crowned  with  glory  and 
blessed  with  the  highest  of  good  fortune.  If  I  should 
complain  or  be  ungrateful,  God  would  be  displeased 
with  me." 

The  joy  of  meeting  Chin  See  with  old  faith  and 
new  love  was  very  great. 

The  day  following,  the  Master  and  Princess  Orchid 
met  in  Blossom's  room,  and  as  they  sat  together  the 
wine  glass  was  passed.  Suddenly  Princess  Blossom 
gently  summoned  a  waiting-maid  to  call  Chin  See. 
When  the  Master  heard  her  voice  there  was  awakened 
in  his  heart  a  sense  of  loss  and  sorrow  that  at  once 
showed  itself  in  his  face.  On  the  occasion  when  he 
visited  Justice  Cheung's  and  played  the  harp  before 
the  maiden  he  had  heard  her  comments  on  the  tunes, 

222 


The  Awakening 

and  he  remembered  her  face  distinctly,  and  now  to- 
day the  Princess's  accents  seemed  as  though  they 
were  a  voice  that  came  from  Cheung  See.  He  had 
heard  the  voice  and  now  that  he  glanced  up  to  see 
the  face,  the  voice  was  not  only  Cheung  See's  but 
the  face  was  Cheung  See's  as  well. 

He  thought  to  himself  :  "  In  this  world  it  happens 
sometimes  that  those  who  are  not  sisters,  and  in  no 
way  related,  look  exactly  alike.  When  I  made  a  con- 
tract of  marriage  with  Cheung  See  I  decided  in  my 
heart  that  it  was  for  life  and  death,  and  now  here  am 
I  enjoying  the  delights  of  home  felicity  while  poor 
Cheung  See's  lonely  spirit  is  wandering  I  know  not 
where.  To  avoid  making  myself  conspicuous,  I  have 
not  poured  out  even  a  single  glass  as  an  offering  at 
her  grave  ;  nor  have  I  once  even  wept  in  the  little 
hut  by  her  tomb.  I  have  indeed  treated  dear  Cheung 
See  very,  very  unkindly." 

The  thoughts  in  his  heart  showed  themselves  in 
his  face,  and  the  tears  were  ready  to  come.  Cheung 
See,  with  her  clear  and  quick  perception,  guessed  the 
sorrow  that  possessed  him,  and  so  caught  her  skirts 
neatly  about  her  and  knelt  to  ask  :  "I  have  heard 
that  if  the  king  is  dishonoured,  the  courtiers  should 
die  ;  and  that  if  the  king  is  anxious  it  is  a  discredit 
to  his  ministers.  My  service  to  my  lord  is  like  that  of 
a  courtier  to  his  king.  I  notice  with  anxiety  that  even 
now  when  the  glass  is  passed  a  hidden  shade  of  dis- 
appointment crosses  my  master's  face.  May  I  ask  the 
reason  ?  " 

The  Master  thanked  her  and  said  :  "  There  is  no 
reason  why  I  should  conceal  from  your  Highness  the 
thoughts  that  trouble  my  soul.  I,  So-yoo,  once  went 

223 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

to  Justice  Cheung's  home  and  there  I  saw  his  beauti- 
ful daughter.  Her  voice  was  your  Highness 's  voice, 
and  her  face  was  your  Highness's  face,  and  so  my 
eyes,  spellbound  by  you,  call  up  these  recollections 
and  fill  my  soul  with  sorrow.  I  regret  that  I  have 
given  you  cause  for  anxiety.  Please  do  not  be  troubled 
or  disappointed  with  me." 

When  Blossom  heard  this  her  cheeks  suddenly 
blushed  crimson.  She  arose  and  hurried  into  the  inner 
chamber  and  did  not  come  out  again. 

The  Master  sent  a  waiting-maid  to  invite  her,  but 
still  she  did  not  come. 

Princess  Orchid  said  :  "  My  sister  is  so  greatly 
loved  of  our  mother,  that  her  head  has  been  turned 
and  her  heart  has  grown  proud  over  it.  She  is  not 
lowly  in  her  disposition  as  I  am,  so  that  the  Master's 
comparing  Cheung's  daughter  with  her  has  made  her 
very  indignant." 

Yang  then  asked  Chin  See  to  beg  forgiveness  for 
him  and  say  to  Princess  Blossom  that  he  was  intoxi- 
cated at  the  time  and  so  said  what  he  regretted. 
"  If  she  will  please  come  out  I  will  do  as  Prince 
Chin  Moon  did  and  request  that  she  put  me  in 
prison." 

After  a  long  time  Chin  See  returned  but  had  noth- 
ing to  say. 

The  Master  asked  again  :  "  What  does  her  High- 
ness say  ?  " 

Chin  See  replied  :  "  Her  Highness  is  very  angry. 
What  she  says  is  too  dreadful  to  be  repeated." 

The  Master  said :  "  Her  Highness's  dreadful 
words  are  her  own,  and  no  fault  of  yours  ;  tell  me 
exactly  what  she  said." 

224 


The  Awakening 

Chin  See  then  made  reply  :  "  Princess  Blossom 
says,  *  Even  though  I  am  contemptible  and  mean,  I 
am  the  Dowager's  much-loved  child.  This  girl, 
Cheung  See,  even  though  she  be  so  wonderful,  is  only 
a  common  village  maid.  It  says  in  the  Book  of  Cere- 
mony that  men  even  bow  before  the  King's  horse. 
That  does  not  mean  that  they  reverence  horses  in 
general,  but  that  they  reverence  what  his  Majesty 
rides.  If  they  reverence  even  the  King's  horse,  should 
they  not  reverence  the  daughter  whom  her  Majesty 
loves  ?  If  the  Master  truly  reverences  the  King  and 
reveres  the  court  he  can  hardly  compare  me  with  the 
daughter  of  a  plebeian.  Moreover  this  daughter  of 
Cheung,  forgetful  of  common  modesty,  and  pre- 
suming on  her  knowledge,  met  the  Master  face  to  face 
and  talked  with  him,  yes  and  argued  with  him  over 
the  tunes  he  played.  She  can  hardly  be  called  superior. 
One  can  read  from  this  the  sort  of  character  she 
was.  She  worried  herself,  too,  over  the  delay  in  her 
wedding  till  she  brought  on  "  impatient  "  sickness, 
and  died  in  her  youth.  When  her  fortunes  have 
turned  out  so  unhappily,  why  should  the  Master  com- 
pare her  with  me  ? 

"  '  In  ancient  days  in  the  Kangdom  of  No,  Chin  Ho, 
by  means  of  gold,  tried  to  tempt  an  honest  woman  who 
was  picking  mulberries,  and  she,  rather  than  jdeld 
her  honour  to  him,  jumped  into  the  stream  and  took 
her  own  life.  Why  should  I  be  obliged  to  look  upon 
the  Master  with  a  shamed  face  ?  I  do  not  wish  to  be 
the  wife  of  a  man  who  has  no  respect  for  me.  Besides, 
the  Master  remembers  her  face  after  she  is  dead  and 
long  departed.  He  thinks  he  still  recognises  her  voice 
in  mine.  I  am  outraged  by  it,  and  though  I  have  not 

225  P 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

the  courage  to  follow  the  woman  of  antiquity  and 
jump  into  the  water,  I  shall  indeed  from  now  on 
never  go  outside  the  middle  gateway,  but  stay  here 
till  I  die.  As  Orchid  is  so  very  meek  in  her  disposition 
she  will  suit  you.  Be  pleased  to  live  your  life  with 
Orchid,  pray.'  " 

The  Master  grew  very  angry  at  this,  and  said  : 
"  In  all  the  world  who  ever  saw  a  girl  pride  herself 
so  on  her  rank  and  station  and  act  as  Blossom  does  ? 
You  may  judge  of  what  this  son-in-law  is  destined 
to  suffer." 

He  said  to  Orchid  :  "  My  meeting  with  Cheung's 
daughter  has  caused  this  misunderstanding,  and 
Blossom  tries  to  put  upon  me  some  wretched  wrong 
or  other.  I  am  not  anxious  about  this  myself,  but  the 
disgrace  of  it  affects  even  the  dead  with  shame." 

Orchid  said  :  "I  will  go  in  and  see  my  sister  and 
explain  it  to  her  so  that  she  will  understand."  And 
she  turned  and  went  in  ;  but  to  the  close  of  day  she 
did  not  come  out  again.  Already  the  lights  were 
trimmed  and  shining  in  the  rooms. 

Orchid  sent  a  waiting-maid  to  say  :  "  Though  I 
have  explained  the  mistake  in  every  possible  way,  my 
sister  will  not  change  her  mind,  and  I  have  been  com- 
pelled to  do  as  she  has  done,  and  decide  to  live  and 
die  with  her  and  share  her  joy  and  sorrow.  Thus 
have  we  sworn  to  heaven  and  earth  and  all  the  gods. 
If  my  sister  means  to  shut  herself  away  alone  in  the 
inner  palace,  I  too  will  do  the  same  and  shut  hiyself 
away.  If  my  sister  does  not  mean  to  live  with  the 
Master,  I  too  cannot  live  with  him.  Please  let  my 
lord  go  to  his  dear  wife  Chin  See  and  be  at  peace." 

At  this  Yang's  anger  flamed  up,    but  still  he 

226 


The  Awakening 

controlled  himself  and  did  not  let  it  show  in  his  words 
or  countenance.  The  empty  curtains  and  coldly 
embroidered  screens  seemed  very  comfortless  to  him. 
He  leaned  on  his  reclining  bed  and  looked  at  Chin 
See.  Chin  See  took  a  light  and  led  the  way  for  him  to 
her  room,  where  she  cast  some  dragon  incense  into 
the  golden  brazier.  On  the  ivory  couch  she  arranged 
the  embroidered  quilts  and  pillows  and  then  said  to 
him  :  "  Though  I  am  very  dull  and  stupid  still  I 
have  read  of  the  Superior  Man,  and  it  says  in  the 
Book  of  Ceremony  :  '  The  secondary  wife  may  not 
appropriate  the  early  hours  of  the  evening.'  The 
two  Princesses  have  retired  to  the  inner  palace,  but 
even  so  I  cannot  think  of  being  the  one  to  wait  upon 
your  Excellency  at  this  time  of  the  night,  so  shall 
now  retire.  May  you  sleep  in  peace."  And  with  this 
she  quietly  withdrew. 

The  Master,  hating  all  this  disagreeable  fuss,  let 
her  go  for  the  sake  of  quiet.  The  prospect  seemed 
a  hopeless  one,  so  he  drew  the  curtains  and  lay  down 
upon  his  pillow.  Uneasy  in  heart,  he  said  to  himself  : 
"  This  company  forms  itself  into  a  league  and  plays 
all  manner  of  tricks  to  befool  its  lord  and  master  ; 
how  can  I  find  any  pleasure  in  praying  or  supplicating 
them  ?  When  I  lived  in  the  park  pavilion  at  Justice 
Cheung's,  Thirteen  and  I  enjoyed  ourselves  during 
the  happy  hours  of  the  day,  and  Cloudlet  and  I  sat  in 
peace  before  the  lights  and  passed  the  glass.  Every 
day  was  happy,  not  one  failed  us  ;  but  now  that  I 
have  come  to  be  the  son-in-law  of  the  Imperial 
Family,  three  days  have  scarcely  gone  by  before  I  am 
lorded  over  and  my  life  made  miserable." 

He  drew  aside  the  curtains,  opened  the  windows, 

227 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

and  the  Milky  Way  was  seen  athwart  the  sky.  The 
Ught  of  the  moon  flooded  the  open  cx)urt.  He  took 
his  shoes  and  went  out,  and  following  the  shadow  of 
the  eaves,  stepped  across  the  square  to  where  he 
saw  in  the  distance  Princess  Blossom's  room  with 
the  lights  burning  brilliantly  behind  the  illumined 
blinds. 

The  Master  whispered  to  himself  :  "  The  night 
is  already  late ;  why  are  they  not  sleeping  I  wonder  ? 
Blossom  is  angry  with  me  and  has  sent  me  off ;  I 
would  like  to  know  if  she  herself  has  retired." 

Fearing  lest  his  shoes  might  make  a  noise  he 
stepped  lightly  and  carefully,  and  at  last  reached  the 
outside  of  the  window.  The  two  Princesses  were 
talking  and  laughing  together,  and  the  sound  of  dice 
was  heard  within.  He  peeped  in  through  the  chink  of 
the  blind,  and  there  was  Chin  See  seated  before  the 
two  Princesses  with  another  person  in  front  of  the 
dice  table  who  was  calling  out  the  numbers.  When 
she  turned  to  trim  the  candle,  behold  it  was  Cloudlet. 

Cloudlet,  desirous  of  seeing  the  Princesses'  wed- 
ding, had  already  been  several  days  in  the  palace,  but 
she  had  concealed  her  whereabouts  so  as  not  to  let 
the  Master  know. 

He  gave  a  sudden  start  of  surprise  as  he  said  to 
himself :  "  How  in  the  world  has  Cloudlet  come  to 
be  here  ?  Evidently  the  Princesses  must  have  invited 
her." 

Once  again  Chin  See  arranged  the  dice  board  and 
said  :  "  You  have  put  down  no  wager,  and  so  evi- 
dently you  are  not  interested  in  the  game.  I  will 
make  a  bet  with  you,  Cloudlet." 

Cloudlet  said  :  "  Cloudlet  is  only  a  poor  low-class 

228 


The  Awakening 

girl ;  one  dish  of  sweets  would  be  a  fortune  for  her. 
But  Chin  See  has  for  ages  been  at  the  side  of  the 
Princess ;  she  would  look  on  silks  and  satins  as  rough 
sackcloth  and  would  regard  the  daintiest  fare  as 
common  seaweed.  How  can  you  propose  to  me  to 
make  a  wager  ?  " 

Then  Chin  See  said  :  "  If  I  do  not  win  I'll  give 
whatever  you  select  from  the  gems  at  my  waist-belt, 
or  from  the  pins  in  my  hair  ;  but  if  you  don't  win 
then  you  must  give  me  what  I  ask.  Truly  it  will  only 
be  very  little  and  something  that  will  cost  you 
nothing." 

Cloudlet  said  in  reply  :  "  What  will  you  ask,  pray, 
and  what  would  you  like  to  have  ?  " 

Chin  See  said  :  "  I  have  heard  the  two  Princesses 
talking  together,  and  I  understand  from  them  that 
you,  Cloudlet,  once  became  a  fairy,  and  again  became 
a  disembodied  spirit,  and  so  befooled  the  Master.  I 
have  never  heard  about  it  definitely,  so  if  you  lose 
you  must  tell  me  the  story." 

Cloudlet  then  pushed  away  the  dice  board  from 
her  and  said  to  Princess  Blossom  :  "  Sister,  sister, 
sister,  you  told  me  the  other  day  that  you  loved  me 
dearly.  Why  have  you  reported  this  ridiculous  story 
to  the  Princess  ?  Chin  See  has  also  heard  about  it. 
Everybody  in  the  palace  who  has  ears  to  hear  will 
know  of  it.  With  what  face  can  I  meet  people  ?  " 

Chin  See  said  :  "  Cloudlet,  in  what  way  is  the 
Princess  your  sister  ?  Blossom  is  the  wife  of  our  lord 
and  Master,  and  Princess  of  Wee,  and  though  she  is 
still  young,  her  rank  is  exceedingly  high.  How  can 
she  possibly  be  a  sister  of  yours  ?  " 

In  reply,  Cloudlet  said  :  "  The  Ups  that  have  been 

229 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

trained  for  years  cannot  change  their  ways  in  a  single 
morning.  Our  happy  contests  together  with  flowers 
and  sprigs  of  green  are  as  yesterday.  I  am  not  afraid 
of  her  Highness  the  Princess."  And  they  all  laughed 
together. 

Princess  Orchid  asked  of  Blossom  :  "  Your  sister 
never  fully  heard  about  Cloudlet  either.  Did  she 
really  deceive  the  Master?  " 

Blossom  said  :  "  The  Master  has  been  many  times 
deceived  by  Cloudlet.  How  can  smoke  come  from  a 
chimney  where  there  is  no  fire  ?  She  only  wanted  to 
see  the  frightened  look  in  his  face,  but  he  was  too 
dense  for  that  and  did  not  know  what  fear  was.  It 
reads  in  the  Book  of  Ceremony,  *  The  man  who 
greatly  loves  women  is  possessed  of  a  spirit  that  has 
died  of  starvation.'  Evidently  this  is  true  of  the 
Master.  Why  should  a  spirit  that  has  died  thus  fear 
another  spirit  ?  "  And  they  all  burst  out  laughing. 

At  last  Yang  recognised  to  his  amazement  that 
Princess  Blossom  was  none  other  than  Cheung  See. 
Like  meeting  one  from  the  dead,  and  with  his  startled 
soul  in  his  mouth,  he  was  about  to  throw  open  the 
window  and  go  violently  into  the  room,  when  he 
thought  again  and  said  to  himself  :  "  Their  desire  is 
to  play  all  manner  of  jokes  upon  me,  so  I'll  befool 
them  instead."  Then  he  went  quietly  to  Chin  See's 
room  and  slept  soundly. 

Early  the  next  morning  Chin  See  came  and  asked 
of  the  waiting-women  :  "  Is  the  Master  up  yet  ?  " 

They  replied  :  "  Not  yet." 

She  waited  for  a  long  time  outside  the  window  till 
daylight  filled  the  court.  Breakfast  too  was  ready,  but 
still  the  Master  slept. 

230 


The  Awakening 

Chin  See  then  went  in  and  asked  :  "Is  your 
Excellency  unwell  ?  " 

Suddenly  he  opened  his  eyes,  stared  blankly  as 
though  he  did  not  see  anyone,  but  went  on  talking  to 
himself  in  a  wandering  way,  so  that  Chin  See  asked 
again  :  "  Master,  why  do  you  act  so  ?  " 

Yang  then  seemed  to  hear  but  made  no  reply. 
After  a  little  he  asked  :  "  Who  are  you  ?  " 

Chin  See  answered  :  "  Does  the  Master  not  know 
his  wife  ?  I  am  Chin  See." 

Yang  replied  :  "  Chin  See  ?  Who  is  Chin  See  ?  " 

She  made  no  further  answer  but  stroked  his  brow 
and  said  :  "  Your  head  is  very  hot,  and  I  am  sure 
you  are  unwell.  What  trouble  is  it  that  has  overtaken 
you,  I  wonder  ?  " 

The  Master  replied  :  "  All  night  long  I  saw 
Cheung  See  in  a  dream  and  talked  with  her.  How  can 
I  be  well  ?  " 

Chin  See  asked  him  to  tell  her  more  fully,  but  he 
made  no  reply  and  simply  turned  as  if  to  sleep  again. 

In  a  state  of  great  distress,  Chin  See  told  a  palace- 
maid  to  wait  on  the  Princesses  and  say  that  the  Master 
was  ailing  and  to  please  come  at  once. 

When  the  message  was  given,  Blossom  remarked  : 
"  One  who  ate  and  drank  so  freely  yesterday  could 
hardly  be  seriously  ill  to-day.  It  is  only  a  trick  on  his 
part  to  get  us  to  go  to  see  him." 

But  Chin  See  came  herself  in  great  anxiety  :  "  The 
Master  is  dazed  seemingly  and  unconscious,  and  does 
not  know  anyone,  but  talks  in  a  wandering  way. 
Would  it  not  be  well  to  inform  his  Majesty  and  let 
the  chief  physician  of  the  Court  be  sent  for  ?  " 

The  Dowager  overheard  them  at  this  point,  called 

231 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

the  Princesses,  and  reprimanded  them,  saying :  "  You 
have  gone  too  far  in  your  jesting,  you  naughty  girls. 
You  hear  that  he  is  very  unwell  and  yet  have  not  even 
gone  to  see  him.  What  kind  of  treatment  is  that  ?  Go 
at  once  and  make  inquiry,  and  if  he  is  very  ill,  get  the 
most  experienced  and  skilful  Court  physician  called 
and  see  that  he  is  cared  for." 

Blossom  now  finding  that  there  was  no  help  for  it, 
went  with  Orchid  to  the  room  where  the  Master 
slept  and  waited  for  a  little  at  the  threshold  of  the 
door.  She  made  Orchid  and  Chin  See  go  in  first. 

The  Master  looked  at  Orchid,  waved  his  two  hands, 
and  gazed  into  space  as  though  he  did  not  know  her. 
Then  he  whispered  :  "  My  life  is  going  and  I  want 
to  take  a  long  farewell  of  Blossom.  Where  is  Blossom 
that  she  does  not  come  ?  " 

Orchid  replied  :  "  Why  does  the  Master  say  such 
things  ?  " 

He  answered  :  "  Last  night,  in  a  vision,  Cheung 
See  came  to  me  and  said,  '  Master,  why  have  you 
broken  your  vow  ?  '  and  then  in  great  anger  she  up- 
braided me  and  gave  me  a  handful  of  pearls.  I  took 
and  swallowed  them.  Assuredly  this  was  a  dreadful 
omen,  for  when  I  shut  my  eyes  Cheung  See  seems 
to  hold  my  body  down,  and  when  I  open  them  she 
stands  before  me.  Life  is  but  a  moment  at  best,  and 
that  is  my  reason  for  desiring  to  see  Blossom." 

Before  he  had  finished  speaking  an  apparent  faint- 
ness  came  over  him,  and  he  turned  his  face  to  the 
wall  and  talked  at  random. 

When  Orchid  saw  this  she  was  alarmed  and  came 
out  and  said  to  Blossom  :  "I  am  afraid  that  the 
Master's  illness  is  due  to  worry  and  anxiety.  Without 

232 


The  Awakening 

you  there  is  no  hope  of  his  recovery."  And  she  told 
just  how  he  seemed. 

Blossom,  half  inclined  to  believe,  and  half  inclined 
to  doubt,  hesitated  to  go  in,  but  Orchid  took  her  by 
the  hand  and  they  went  in  together.  They  found 
Yang  talking  incoherently  in  a  conversation  that  he 
seemed  to  be  having  with  Cheung  See. 

Then  Orchid  in  a  loud  voice  said  :  "  Master, 
Master,  Blossom  has  come ;  please  look  at  her." 

He  raised  his  head  for  an  instant,  waved  his  hand 
about  several  times  as  though  he  wished  to  get  up, 
then  Chin  See  took  hold  and  helped  him.  He  sat  on 
the  side  of  the  couch  and  speaking  to  the  two  Prin- 
cesses said  :  "I,  So-yoo,  have  abused  the  grace  of 
God  and  have  been  married  to  you  two  Princesses.  I 
have  sworn  my  vow  that  for  all  time  to  come  I  will 
live  and  grow  old  with  you,  but  there  is  one  whose 
purpose  it  is  to  arrest  and  bear  me  away,  so  I  cannot 
long  remain." 

Blossom  said  in  reply  :  "  Master,  you  are  a  gentle- 
man of  intelligence  and  reason.  Why  do  you  talk  such 
nonsense  ?  Even  though  Cheung  See's  frail  soul  and 
dead  spirit  do  exist,  this  inner  palace  is  so  closely 
guarded  by  a  hundred  angels,  who  serve  as  its  pro- 
tecting force,  that  she  could  never  enter  here." 

The  Master  replied  :  "  Cheung  See  was  just  now 
at  my  side;  how  can  you  say  that  she  could  not 
enter  ? " 

Then  Orchid  answered  :  "  The  ancients  saw  in 
the  wine  glass  the  shadow  of  a  bow,  and  fell  ill  of  fear. 
I  am  sure  that  the  Master's  illness  is  because  he  has 
mistaken  the  archer's  bow  for  a  serpent." 

But  the  Master  made  no  reply,  simply  waving  his 

233 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

hands.  Blossom,  seeing  that  the  matter  grew  gradu- 
ally worse  and  worse,  did  not  longer  dare  to  keep  up 
the  deception.  She  went  forward,  knelt  down,  and 
said  :  "  Master,  do  you  want  to  see  only  the  dead 
Cheung  See  and  not  the  living  ?  " 

Yang,  pretending  that  he  did  not  understand, 
replied  :  "  What  do  you  mean  ?  Justice  Cheung  had 
one  daughter  only,  and  she  has  been  dead  for  a  long 
time.  Since  the  dead  Cheung  See  visited  me,  what 
living  Cheung  See  can  there  be  beside  her  ?  If  she  is 
not  dead,  why  she  is  alive  ?  If  she  is  not  alive, 
why  she  is  dead  ?  Anybody  knows  that.  To  say  some- 
times of  anyone,  '  Why  they  are  dead  ? '  and  again 
sometimes  '  Why  they  are  alive? '  is  nonsense.  One 
must  inquire  whether  the  dead  person  is  really 
Cheung  See,  or  whether  the  living  person  is  really 
Cheung  See.  If  it  is  true  that  she  is  really  alive  then 
it  is  false  that  she  is  dead  ;  and  if  it  is  true  that  she  is 
really  dead  then  it  is  false  to  say  that  she  is  alive.  I 
cannot  understand  what  your  Highness  says." 

Orchid  then  broke  in :  "  Her  Majesty  the  Dowager 
adopted  Cheung  See  as  her  daughter  and  made  her 
Princess  Blossom,  and  put  her  and  me  together  in 
the  Master's  service.  Princess  Blossom  is  indeed  the 
same  Cheung  See  who  listened  when  you  played  the 
harp.  If  not  so,  why  should  she  be  in  every  look  and 
feature  the  exact  image  of  Cheung  See  ?  " 

The  Master  made  no  reply  but  gave  a  little  moan 
and  then  suddenly  raised  his  head  and  said :  "  When 
I  lived  at  Cheung  See's  home,  Cheung  See's  maid 
Cloudlet  waited  upon  me.  I  have  something  that  I 
want  to  ask  of  Cloudlet.  Where  is  she  now  ?  I  want 
to  see  her." 

234 


The  Awakening 

Orchid  said  :  "  Cloudlet  just  now  came  into  the 
palace  to  see  Blossom,  and  learning  that  the  Master 
was  unwell,  she  is  anxiously  waiting  outside  and 
wants  to  make  her  salutations." 

The  door  opened  and  Cloudlet  entered.  She  went 
up  to  the  Master  and  said  :  "  Are  you  better,  my 
lord  ?   I  certainly  hope  so." 

Yang  replied  :  "  Let  Cloudlet  stay  by  me  alone, 
and  let  all  the  others  go  out."  And  so  the  Princesses 
and  Chin  See  withdrew  and  stood  at  the  head  of  the 
open  porch. 

Then  the  Master  arose,  washed,  arranged  his 
dress  and  told  Cloudlet  to  call  the  other  three. 

Then  Cloudlet ,  bottling  up  her  smiles ,  came  out  and 
said  to  the  two  Princesses  and  to  Chin  See  :  "  The 
Master  wants  to  see  you,"  and  so  the  four  went  in. 

Yang  now  wore  a  ceremonial  robe  and  special  hat, 
and  held  in  his  hand  a  white  stone  chatelaine.  His 
face  was  fresh  as  the  spring  breezes,  and  his  mind  as 
clear  as  the  autumn  stream.  Not  a  vestige  was  there 
of  anything  that  would  mark  him  as  ill.  Blossom  sud- 
denly realised  that  she  had  been  fooled,  laughed  and 
bowed  low,  making  no  further  inquiries  as  to  his 
health. 

Orchid  asked  :  "  How  is  your  lordship  feeling 
now  ?  " 

The  Master,  with  a  serious  countenance,  said: 
"  Truly  we  have  fallen  on  peculiar  days  when  the 
women  of  a  household  band  together  to  play  practical 
jokes  upon  the  husband.  I  am  a  man  of  high  rank,  of 
the  dignity  of  a  first  minister,  and  I  have  sought  high 
and  low  for  some  way  by  which  to  correct  this  dis- 
order in  my  family  but  have  not  succeeded.  In  my 

235 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

anxiety  I  fell  ill,  but  I  am  quite  recovered  now,  so  do 
not  be  anxious,  please." 

Orchid  and  Chin  See  laughed  with  all  their  might 
but  made  no  reply,  and  then  Cheung  See^  said  : 
"  This  was  not  our  doing,  please.  If  the  Master 
would  find  full  recovery  from  his  sickness  let  him 
look  up  to  the  Empress  Mother  and  tell  her." 

Yang  could  no  longer  restrain  his  pent-up  feelings, 
but  broke  out  laughing  and  said  :  "  I  had  expected  to 
meet  you  only  in  the  next  world  and  had  so  planned, 
but  to-day  you  were  in  my  dream.  Is  it  not  truly  a 
beautiful  dream  ?  " 

Cheung  See  said  :  "  It  is  all  due  to  her  Gracious 
Majesty's  kindness  to  me  her  child,  and  to  the  un- 
bounded favour  of  his  Majesty  the  Emperor,  and 
the  love  and  tenderness  of  Princess  Orchid.  It  is 
written  on  my  bones  and  engraved  deep  in  my  heart. 
Never  can  my  life  be  able  to  speak  all  my  remembered 
gratitude,"  Then  she  told  him  everjrthing  that  had 
come  to  pass,  and  he  thanked  her,  saying:  "  The 
equal  of  your  dear-heartedness  has  never  been  re- 
corded since  time  immemorial.  I  have  no  way  to 
make  any  return  for  this  highest  favour.  My  sincerest 
regards  and  tenderest  love  shall  all  be  yours  while  we 
live  our  happy  life  together." 

The  Princess  then  spoke  her  thanks,  saying : 
"  This  is  all  due  to  my  dearest  sister's  plans,  and  it 
is  her  heart  of  love  that  has  moved  heaven  to  bless  us. 
It  was  no  work  of  mine." 

At  this  time  the  Empress  Dowager  summoned 
some  of  the  palace-maids  to  inquire  concerning  the 
Master's  health,  and  when  she  knew  the  reason  for  it 
she  laughed  heartily  and  said  :    "I  was  indeed  in 

236 


The  Awakening 

doubt  regarding  it."  So  she  summoned  Yang  to  her 
presence  and  the  two  Princesses  came  as  well  and  sat 
together  with  him. 

The  Empress  said  :  "  I  hear  that  the  Master  has 
united  again  the  happy  bonds  that  bound  him  to  his 
dead  Cheung  See." 

Yang  bowed  and  made  answer  :  "  Your  Majesty's 
kindness  is  great  as  high  heaven  ;  though  I  wear 
down  my  body  and  offer  up  the  vitals  of  my  soul  I 
can  never  pay  the  hundredth  part  of  all  the  favours 
you  have  shown  me." 

The  Empress  said  :  "  That  is  all  a  joke  ;  why  do 
you  talk  of  such  nonsense  ?  " 

On  this  day  the  Emperor  received  audience  of  the 
ministers  in  the  Grand  Hall  of  the  palace.  Certain  of 
them  said  :  "  We  learn  that  a  great  star  has  arisen  ; 
that  sweetened  dew  has  fallen  ;  that  the  waters  of  the 
Whang-ho  have  become  clear  ;  that  the  crops  have 
grown  to  abundance.  Three  subject  kings  have 
offered  their  land  as  tribute  ;  the  fierce  Tibetan 
rebels  have  changed  in  heart,  and  now  bow  in  grateful 
submission.  This  is  due  to  the  virtues  of  your 
Majesty." 

The  Emperor  graciously  disclaimed  merit  and 
put  it  all  to  the  credit  of  his  ministers. 

But  they  made  reply,  saying :  "  General  Yang 
So-yoo  remains  these  days  long  within  the  palace  and 
affairs  of  State  are  heaped  up  and  need  looking  after." 

His  Majesty  laughed  and  said  :  "  The  Empress 
Dowager  has  held  him  fast  these  days  and  so  the 
General  is  not  free  to  go.  I  shall  tell  him  myself, 
however,  and  see  that  he  gets  to  work." 

237 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

The  day  following  the  Master  went  to  the  home 
of  Justice  Cheung  to  look  after  some  business,  and 
from  there  he  wrote  a  memorial  asking  that  he  be 
permitted  to  bring  his  mother.  His  memorial  read  : 

"  General  the  Prince  of  Wee,  son-in-law  of  her 
Majesty,  bows^in  humble  salutation,  and  presents 
to  his  Majesty  this  memorial.  Of  humble  origin 
from  the  land  of  Cho,  I  had  but  two  or  three  fields 
on  which  to  live.  My  scholarship  embraced  only  a 
single  set  of  the  Classics.  My  old  mother  still  lives, 
but  I  have  not  cared  for  her  as  I  should  have  liked. 
I  thought  of  the  measures  of  grain  that  I  would 
have  given  her,  and  of  the  delicacies  that  I  would 
have  prepared.  When  it  came  to  parting,  my 
mother  said  to  me, '  Our  literatus  home  has  fallen 
to  decay,  and  the  fortunes  of  the  family  run  low. 
You  are  responsible  for  the  future,  and  the  lives  of 
the  past  are  in  your  keeping.  Be  diligent  and  learn  ; 
win  the  examination  and  let  your  mother  share 
your  renown.  This  is  my  hope.  But  if  office  or  re- 
ward come  too  quickly  there  is  danger  in  it.  Think 
well  of  this.' 

"  I  took  my  mother's  word,  wrote  it  in  my  heart, 
and  never  have  I  forgotten  it.  Great  and  good  for- 
tune have  fallen  on  me, for  only  after  a  few  years  at 
Court  my  rank  has  risen  by  leaps  and  bounds.  By 
Imperial  decree  I  passed  others  by  and  made  the 
knees  of  the  rebel  to  tremble.  I  received  orders  to 
go  west  and  to  bind  the  hands  of  the  fierce  Tibetan. 
To  begin  with  I  was  but  an  inexperienced  son  of 
the  literatus  ;  how  could  I  have  ever  imagined 
plans  to  attain  to  such  as  this  ?  It  is  all  due  to  the 

238 


The  Awakening 

prestige  of  your  Majesty.  The  officers  gladly  risked 
their  lives  and  your  Majesty  so  generously  encour- 
aged the  little  efforts  that  we  made,  and  rewarded 
them  so  liberally,  that  my  heart  is  rendered  uneasy 
and  ashamed  and  I  would  rather  not  speak  of  it. 
All  my  mother's  wishes  on  my  behalf  have  come 
to  pass,  and  I  am  chosen  as  the  Imperial  son-in-law 
with  fortune  unheard  of.  The  Imperial  command 
has  been  so  pressing  that  I  could  not  resist  it,  and 
ashamed  as  I  am  that  the  State  should  be  dis- 
honoured by  one  so  mean,  I  still  have  had  to  accede. 
My  aged  mother's  hopes  did  not  pass  at  first  the 
peck  measure,  and  my  own,  too,  did  not  go  beyond 
a  humble  office  of  the  literati.  Behold  me  now  in 
the  highest  seat  of  the  land  and  first  among  my 
peers.  In  the  rush  and  business  of  the  day  I  have 
never  yet  had  an  opportunity  to  escort  my  mother 
to  the  capital.  I  have  lived  in  my  beautiful  home 
while  she  has  occupied  a  thatched  hut ;  I  have 
eaten  of  dainty  fare  while  she  has  eaten  only  of  the 
meanest.  Thus  am  I  living  in  luxury  and  leaving 
my  mother  to,  poverty  and  disgrace,  disregardful 
of  the  fundamental  laws  and  failing  in  the  duty  of 
a  son.  My  mother,  too,  is  old ;  she  has  no  other  child 
but  me,  and  the  distance  separating  us  is  great, 
with  messengers  few  and  far  between.  If  I  go  up  to 
the  hills  and  call  on  the  clouds  to  bear  my  greetings 
they  heed  not,  and  so  my  heart  is  sore.  Now  that 
matters  are  quiet  in  the  State  and  affairs  are  fallen 
into  repose,  I  humbly  pray  that  your  Majesty  will 
kindly  consider  and  grant  my  request,  giving  me 
two  or  three  months  so  that  I  may  go  and  replace 
the  sod  on  my  ancestors'  graves,  and  bring  my 

239 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

mother  here  that  we  may  both  together  praise 
your  Majesty's  high  and  exalted  virtue.  If  you 
graciously  grant  me  this,  I  shall  in  my  turn  do  my 
best  to  repay  the  Imperial  kindness.  I  humbly  bow 
and  make  this  petition,  and  may  your  High  Majesty 
please  to  grant  me  a  favourable  answer." 

The  Emperor  read  it  and  sighed,  saying  :  "  You 
are  a  filial  son,  Yang  So-yoo." 

He  gave  him  rich  rewards,  gold  a  thousand  pieces, 
eight  hundred  rolls  of  silk  to  be  presented  to  his 
mother,  and  the  word  of  command  to  bring  her 
quickly. 

The  Master  then  entered  the  inner  palace  and 
bade  farewell  to  the  Empress  Dowager.  She  also 
gave  gold  and  silk  in  abundance,  twice  as  much  as 
the  Emperor. 

Yang  then  withdrew  and  bade  farewell  to  the  two 
Princesses,  to  Chin  See  and  to  Cloudlet,  and  set  out 
on  his  way.  When  he  reached  the  Choh-jin  Bridge, 
the  two  dancing-girls.  Moonlight  and  Wildgoose, 
having  been  informed  by  the  Governor,  awaited 
him  at  the  guest-house. 

The  Master  greeted  them  smilingly  and  said  : 
"  This  journey  of  mine  is  a  private  one  and  has  no 
relation  to  the  King's  commands ;  how  did  you  two 
know  of  my  coming  ?  " 

Moonlight  and  Wildgoose  replied  :  "  The  Master, 
Prince  of  Wee,  son-in-law  of  the  Empress,  could 
hardly  set  out  on  a  journey  without  its  being  known 
to  us.  From  the  secluded  valleys  we  hurried  forth  to 
meet  you.  Even  though  we  were  in  the  deep  recesses 
of  the  hills  still  we  had  our  ears  and  eyes;  how  much 

240 


The  Awakening 

the  more  when  the  Governor  regards  us  as  second 
only  to  your  Excellency  ?  Last  year  when  you  went 
by  in  your  official  capacity  we  won  lasting  glory,  but 
now  with  still  higher  office,  and  with  honour  still 
greater,  our  glory  will  be  a  hundred-fold  enhanced. 
We  have  heard  that  you  are  married  to  the  two  Prin- 
cesses, and  are  wondering  if  they  will  tolerate  us." 

The  Master  replied  :  "  Of  the  two  Princesses,  one 
is  sister  of  the  Emperor  and  one  is  a  daughter  of 
Justice  Cheung,  who,  at  the  request  of  the  younger 
Princess,  became  an  adopted  daughter  of  the  Empress 
Dowager.  We  have  Cheung  See  and  her  sister's 
kindly  and  loving  dispositions  and  liberal  spirit  to 
trust ;  will  they  not  be  glad  at  your  happiness  ?  " 

At  this  Wildgoose  and  Moonlight  looked  at  each 
other  and  spoke  their  thanks  and  congratulations. 

The  Master  spent  the  night  and  then  started  for 
his  native  place.  He  had  left  his  mother  and  begun 
life's  journey  as  a  boy  of  eighteen.  Now  he  was  return- 
ing, riding  in  the  chair  of  a  Minister  of  State,  wearing 
the  insignia  of  the  Prince  of  Wee,  and  having  upon 
him  the  honours  of  the  Imperial  son-in-law.  All  this 
had  taken  place  in  four  short  years.  Was  it  not  a 
wonder  ? 

He  appeared  before  his  mother,  and  in  her  joy  she 
took  him  by  the  hands  and  lovingly  patting  him 
said  :  "  Are  you  truly  my  boy,  So-yoo  ?  I  really 
cannot  believe  it.  When  you  repeated  your  cycle 
years  so  long  ago  and  began  your  first  lessons  in  the 
character,  who  would  have  thought  that  such  glory 
awaited  you  ?  " 

Her  joy  passed  all  limits  and  her  tears  flowed. 
The  Master  then  told  her  how  he  had  won  his 

241  R 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

fame,  of  his  marriage,  and  of  the  secondary  wives 
that  he  had. 

She  replied  :  "  Your  father  always  said  of  you  that 
you  were  to  bring  glory  to  our  home.  I  am  so  sorry 
that  he  did  not  live  to  see  it  for  himself." 

Yang  visited  the  ancestral  graves  on  the  near  hills. 
The  gold  and  silk  that  came  from  the  Palace  were 
made  ready,  and  then,  on  a  great  feast  being  given  in 
honour  of  his  mother,  he  presented  these.  All  the 
friends  and  relatives  were  called,  and  the  rejoicing 
lasted  for  ten  days.  On  its  completion,  in  company 
with  his  mother,  he  set  out  on  his  return.  The 
officials  along  the  route,  with  the  governors  and 
the  magistrates,  made  their  salutations  and  helped 
to  do  honour  to  his  progress.  His  way  glittered  with 
splendour. 

When  the  Master  passed  Nak-yang  he  sent  word 
to  the  magistrate  to  have  Wildgoose  and  Moonlight 
called,  but  the  answer  came  back  that  they  had  al- 
ready left  for  the  capital.  Disappointed  to  miss  them, 
he  went  on  his  way  and  at  last  reached  the  Imperial 
City.  Here  he  led  his  mother  into  his  home  and  into 
the  Palace,  where  she  made  her  deep  obeisance.  She 
was  commanded  to  audience  and  they  gave  her  gold, 
silver,  silks  and  satins.  The  ministers  and  courtiers 
were  invited  and  for  three  days  a  feast  was  celebrated 
amid  joy  and  rejoicing. 

The  Master  selected  a  lucky  day  and  led  her  to  her 
new  home  that  he  had  prepared  as  a  gift.  It  was  like 
a  palace  with  towers,  pavilions  and  parks.  Cheung 
See  and  Orchid  performed  the  ceremony  of  the  bride 
before  the  mother-in-law,  and  Chin  See  and  Cloudlet 
also  made   ceremonial  salutations.    By  abundance 

242 


The  Awakening 

of  gifts  and  in  gentleness  of  deportment  they  showed 
themselves  such  that  the  mother's  face  shone  with  joy 
and  her  soul  was  filled  with  delight 

When  the  Master  came  to  give  all  the  gifts  that  he 
had  received  for  his  mother  he  had  three  days  of  feast- 
ing again,  on  which  occasion  the  palace  band  of  music 
was  sent  for  and  tables  of  food  were  brought  from  the 
Imperial  halls  that  the  officials  shared. 

The  Master,  dressed  in  coloured  robes  and  with 
the  two  Princesses  by  his  side,  raised  high  his  glass, 
made  way  for  his  mother,  and  then  all  joined  in  the 
chorus.  Before  the  feast  broke  up  the  gate  guard 
came  in  to  say  that  just  before  the  entrance  were  two 
girls  who  had  passed  in  their  names  for  the  ladies 
and  the  Master. 

"  Doubtless  Moonlight  and  Wildgoose,"  said  he. 
He  told  his  mother  of  them,  and  she  invited  them  in. 
They  bowed  before  the  step  way,  and  all  the  guests 
remarked  that  Wildgoose  from  Nak-yang  and  Moon- 
light from  Ha-book  had  long  been  famous,  beautiful 
women,  surpassing  others. 

If  the  Master  had  not  been  a  magician  how  could 
he  have  brought  all  this  to  pass  ? 

He  commanded  the  two  dancing-girls  to  entertain 
the  guests  with  special  selections,  and  at  once  they 
both  arose,  put  on  their  dancing  shoes,  waved  their 
soft  silken  sleeves  and  made  the  bright-coloured  folds 
fly  like  fluttering  birds  as  they  danced  together.  Their 
songs  were  like  falling  flowers,  like  the  passing  of 
leaves  on  the  spring  breezes,  like  the  shadows  of 
clouds  rolling  across  the  eave-tops  of  the  city. 

The  mother  and  the  two  Princesses  treated  the  two 
dancing-girls  to  the  most  bounteous  gifts  ;  and,  as 

243 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Chin  See  had  been  formerly  acquainted  with  Moon- 
light, they  talked  of  the  past  with  overflowing  joy. 

Cheung  See  took  up  the  glass  and  specially  offered 
it  to  Moonlight  to  thank  her  for  her  recommendation. 
But  the  mother  said  :  "  Do  you  thank  Moonlight  only 
and  forget  my  cousin  ?  You  will  overlook  the  source 
of  it  all  if  you  are  not  careful." 

The  Master  said  :  "  My  joy  to-day  is  due  to  the 
priestess  Too-ryon,  and  now,  mother,  that  you  have 
come  to  the  capital,  even  though  no  special  command 
is  issued,  she  too  must  be  specially  invited  to  join  us. 
Messengers  have  been  sent  to  the  office  to  say  :  '  It 
is  three  years  since  the  teacher  Too-ryon  went  to  the 
land  of  Chok,  and  the  lady  Yoo  is  greatly  concerned 
about  her.'  " 


244 


Chapter  XIV 
In  the  Fairy  Lists 

AFTER  the  arrival  of  Wildgoose  and  Moon- 
light at  the  Master's  home  his  maids  and 
attendants  daily  grew  greater .  in  number. 
He  appointed  to  each  their  particular  place  of  resi- 
dence. Palaces,  halls,  galleries  and  pagodas  were 
called  into  requisition. 

In  the  palace  enclosure  there  were  eight  hundred 
musicians,  the  most  beautiful  in  the  Empire.  They 
were  divided  into  two  divisions  to  east  and  west.  To 
the  east  were  four  hundred  of  whom  Moonlight  had 
charge  ;  and  to  the  east  a  like  number  with  Wild- 
goose  for  overseer.  These  were  taught  singing  and 
dancing  and  were  given  lessons  in  music.  Each  month 
they  all  met  in  the  Chong-wha  Pavilion  and  engaged 
in  contests  of  skill. 

The  Master,  along  with  his  mother,  the  two  Prin- 
cesses accompanying,  would  act  as  judge,  give  prizes 
or  require  forfeits.  Each  winner  would  get  three 
glasses  of  wine  and  a  wreath  of  flowers  for  her  brow 
crowning  her  with  glory.  The  loser  was  given  a  glass 
of  cold  water  and  a  dot  of  ink  was  imprinted  on  her 
forehead.  This  mark  was  such  a  disgrace  and  shame 
that  they  laboured  to  escape  it  and  advanced  in  skill 
day  by  day,  so  that  the  musicians  of  Prince  Wee  and 
Prince  Wol  were  the  finest  in  the  world. 

One  day  the  two  Princesses  and  the  other  women 
were  in  attendance  on  the  mother,  when  the  Master 
brought  a  letter  to  where  they  were  seated  and  gave 

245 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

it  to  Princess  Orchid,  saying  :  "  This  is  a  letter  from 
your  brother,  Prince  Wol." 

The  Princess  opened  it  and  read  :  "  The  spring 
weather  is  so  beautiful,  may  all  blessing  and  happiness 
be  yours.  Heretofore  so  many  affairs  of  State  have 
engaged  you  that  you  have  had  no  leisure.  No  horse- 
men have  been  seen  on  the  Festal  Grounds,  and  no 
boats  have  been  moored  at  the  head  of  Kong-myong 
Lake.  The  fathers  of  the  city  talk  of  the  splendour 
and  life  that  accompanied  the  days  of  Cho  and  weep 
over  the  departed  glory  of  the  past  with  tearful  faces. 
By  the  grace  of  the  Emperor,  and  your  Excellency's 
skill,  we  are  at  peace  on  every  hand  and  the  people 
are  well  content.  This  is  the  time  to  recall  the  happy 
days  of  the  past.  Spring  is  not  yet  too  far  advanced, 
the  weather  is  agreeable  and  the  flowers  and  willow 
catkins  make  a  man's  heart  glad.  No  time  is  more 
suitable  for  an  agreeable  outing  or  for  sights  to  see 
than  now.  I  suggest  that  we  meet  on  the  Festal 
Grounds  and  try  a  spell  at  the  chase  and  at  music, 
and  help  the  world  a  little  toward  the  perfection  of 
its  joy.  If  your  Excellency  will  kindly  consent  to 
choose  a  day  and  let  me  know,  I  shall  avail  myself  of 
the  privilege  of  joining  you." 

When  the  Princess  had  read  it  she  said  to  the 
Master  :  "Do  you  know  what  lies  behind  Prince 
Wol's  thought  ?  " 

The  Master  said : "  Why,has  he  some  deep  thought 
or  other  hidden  underneath  this  ?  Nothing  more,  I 
should  think,  than  an  ordinary  outing  among  the 
flowers  and  willows.  It  is  the  proposal  of  one  who 
enjoys  pleasure." 

The  Princess  answered  :  "  Your  Excellency  does 

246 


In  the  Fairy  Lists 

not  understand  it  fully.  Prince  Wol  likes  pretty  girls 
and  good  music.  The  prettiest  girls  in  the  world  are 
not  all  in  the  Palace.  Recently  one  arrived  at  Prince 
Wol's,  a  special  favourite,  a  noted  dancing-girl  from 
Mu-chang  whose  name  is  Ok-yon.  The  maids-in- 
waiting  have  seen  her  and  lost  their  hearts  to  her. 
They  are  almost  beside  themselves,  feeling  that  they 
are  mere  nothings  and  nobodies  in  comparison.  Ok- 
yon's  skill  and  beauty  are  without  a  parallel,  and  now 
my  brother,  Prince  Wol,  hearing  that  there  are  many 
beautiful  women  in  our  home,  wants  to  do  as  did 
Wang-kai  and  Sok-soong  in  days  of  yore  and  have 
a  trial  of  skill." 

"  I  read  it  indifferently,"  said  the  Master  ;  "  your 
Highness  knows  his  thought  better  than  I  do." 

Cheung  See  said  :  "  Even  though  this  is  to  be  a 
trial  of  skill  entered  on  but  once,  let  us  see  to  it  that 
our  side  wins."  She  nodded  to  Wildgoose  and  Moon- 
light and  added  :  "  Though  you  train  soldiers  for 
ten  years,  yet  the  trial  you  put  them  to  may  be  only 
for  a  morning.  Our  success  rests  altogether  on  the 
skill  of  you  two  leaders.  Do  your  best  I  pray  you." 

Moonlight  made  reply  :  "I  am  afraid  we  cannot 
beat  them.  Prince  Wol's  band  has  the  highest  repu- 
tation in  the  world  ;  and  Ok-yon  from  Mu-chang  is 
echoed  from  mouth  to  mouth  through  all  the  Nine 
Provinces.  Prince  Wol  has  already  got  such  an 
orchestra  in  hand,  and  such  a  skilful  performer  as  she 
to  assist,  that  I  fear  that  he  will  be  a  very  difficult 
opponent  to  face.  With  our  one-sided  small  force, 
unacquainted  with  the  rules  that  govern  a  perform- 
ance like  this,  I  am  afraid  that  before  ever  the  battle 
begins  our  people  may  decide  to  run  off  and  make 

247 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

their  escape.  Our  own  shame  is  not  to  be  specially 
thought  of,  but  our  family  would  be  put  to  eternal 
disgrace." 

The  Master  said  :  "  When  I  first  met  Moonlight 
in  the  Chong  pavilion  of  Nak-yang,  they  said  that 
she  was  the  prettiest  girl  by  far,  and  Ok-yon  was  there 
as  well.  It  must  be  the  same  person  referred  to  here. 
When  I  have  Che  Kal-yang  [42]  on  my  side,  why 
should  I  fear  to  meet  Hang-00  or  Han  Pom-jing  ?  " 

The  Princess  said  :  "  In  the  palace  of  Prince  Wol 
Ok-yon  is  not  alone  the  special  beauty." 

Moonlight  added  :  "In  Prince  Wol's  palace  the 
number  of  those  who  paint  their  faces  and  put  on 
rouge  is  like  the  blades  of  grass  on  Pal-kang  Moun- 
tain. There  is  no  help  for  it  but  quickly  to  make  our 
escape.  How  can  we  ever  hope  to  meet  them  ? 
Please,  your  Highness,  ask  Wildgoose  to  take  charge 
of  it ;  I  am  a  person  of  such  small  courage  that  when 
I  hear  an5^hing  like  this  my  throat  closes  up,  and  I 
am  not  able  to  utter  a  word." 

Wildgoose  apparently  grew  very  angry  and  said  : 
"  What  do  you  mean.  Moonlight  ?  Is  this  true  ?  We 
two  have  travelled  over  seventy  counties  of  Kwan- 
dong  and  not  a  noted  player  was  there  that  we  did 
not  hear,  and  not  a  single  singer  that  we  did  not 
listen  to.  My  knees  have  never  yet  bowed  to  another, . 
why  should  they  yield  the  first  place  to  Ok-yon  ?  If 
the  ladies  of  Han  were  there  who  upset  cities  and 
kingdoms  by  their  beauty,  or  the  fairy  maids  of  Cho, 
who  could  at  will  become  clouds  and  rain,  I  might 
possibly  be  startled,  but  with  only  this  Ok-yon  to 
face,  why  should  I  be  anxious  ?  " 

Moonlight  said  :    "  Wildgoose,  you  talk  as  if  it 

248 


In  the  Fairy  Lists 

were  so  easy  a  matter.  True,  when  we  were  together 
in  Kwan-dong,  we  took  part  on  many  great  occasions 
at  which  there  were  magistrates,  governors,  and 
nobles  present ;  at  lesser  ones,  too,  where  there  were 
literati  and  scholars,  but  we  never  once  met  any 
capable  opponents.  Now,  however,  it  is  a  question 
of  Prince  Wol  with  a  critical  eye,  who  has  grown  up 
among  gems  and  jewels.  He  regards  great  mountains 
and  wide  seas  as  nothing.  How  can  one  mistake  a  small 
hill  the  size  of  the  hand  or  the  little  stream  like  a 
thread  of  silk  for  one  of  these  ?  This  is  like  combat- 
ing Son-o,  or  like  trying  one's  strength  with  Poon- 
yok.  A  great  general  cannot  be  opposed  by  a  little 
child  ;  how  much  less  Prince  Wol's  household  by  this 
poor  weakling  ?  To  beat  him  lies  beyond  a  hundred 
miles  of  probability.  How  can  you  look  at  it  so  lightly  ? 
I  see  in  Wildgoose's  boastful  word  that  she  has  spoken 
like  Cho-kwal,  foretelling  her  own  defeat."  Then 
she  added,  speaking  to  the  Master  :  "  Wildgoose  has 
a  boastful  spirit ;  I  should  like  to  tell  you  some  of 
her  defects.  When  she  first  followed  your  Excellency 
she  stole  one  of  the  fine  steeds  of  the  King  of  Yon, 
rode  it,  calling  herself  a  young  man  from  Ha-book, 
and  then  from  the  side  of  the  Hai-tan  roadway,  along 
which  you  were  to  pass,  she  greeted  you.  If  Wild- 
goose  be  really  so  graceful  and  pretty,  how  was  it 
that  your  Excellency  mistook  her  for  a  man  ?  On 
the  first  night,  too,  that  she  was  with  you,  taking 
advantage  of  the  darkness, she  usurped  my  place.  Yet 
after  all  this  she  says  these  boastful  words." 

Wildgoose  laughed  as  she  replied  :  "  Truly  there's 
no  knowing  people's  minds.  Before  I  followed  your 
Excellency,  Moonlight  praised  my  beauty  and  looked 

249 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

upon  me  as  Hang-a  of  the  moon,  and  now  she  regards 
me  as  more  worthless  than  a  cash  piece.  It  must 
mean  that  you  love  me  better  than  you  love  her  and 
she  wants  to  have  all  your  love  to  herself." 

Then  Moonlight  and  the  others  laughed,  and 
Blossom  said  :  "  Since  Wildgoose's  refinement  and 
delicacy  are  such,  the  fact  that  the  Master  took  her 
for  a  boy  must  be  due  to  his  defective  eyesight.  It  is 
nothing  to  Wildgoose's  credit  to  be  so  regarded,  for 
Moonlight's  words  are  true.  It  is  not  ladylike  to 
assume  the  guise  of  a  boy  and  wear  men's  clothes  ; 
neither  would  a  man's  putting  on  women's  clothing 
to  deceive  another  be  considered  manly.  Because  of 
their  weakness  and  defects  in  each  case  they  assume 
a  disguise." 

The  Master  laughed  and  said  :  "  Your  ladyship 
has  evidently  pointed  this  joke  at  me,  but  I  may  say 
in  reply  that  your  dear  eyes  were  not  bright,  for 
though  you  could  distinguish  the  different  tunes 
you  did  not  know  a  man  from  a  woman.  This  was 
due  to  the  fact  that  though  you  have  ears  to  hear, 
your  eyes  are  defective  in  seeing.  If  one  set  of  facul- 
ties is  defective,  would  you  call  the  person  perfect  ? 
Though  you  make  light  of  me,  still  the  people  who 
see  my  picture  in  the  Neung-yoo  Pavilion  all  praise 
the  majesty  of  its  proportions,  its  strength  and  its 
dignity." 

Those  assembled  laughed  delightedly  when  Moon- 
light went  on  :  "  Just  now  it  is  a  question  of  falling 
in  and  marching  out  to  meet  a  powerful  enemy  ;  why 
do  we  sit  idly  by  and  waste  time  ?  We  two  alone 
cannot  be  fully  trusted  to  win  the  day.  Suppose 
we  have  Cloudlet  to  help  us.  Since  Prince  Wol  is  not 

250 


In  the  Fairy  Lists 

an  outsider,  Cloudlet  could  have  no  special  objection 
to  seeing  him." 

Then  Chin  See  said  :  "  If  the  two,  Moonlight  and 
Wildgoose,  are  to  go  alone  into  the  arena,  I  should 
like  to  help,  but  when  it  comes  to  singing  and  dancing 
what  use  would  I  be  ?  If  I  go  I  fear  Moonlight  will 
never  win." 

Cloudlet  said  :  "  Although  I  do  not  excel  in 
dancing  and  singing,  still  if  the  question  pertain  only 
to  my  own  person,  why  should  I  not  have  a  view  of 
such  a  gathering  as  this  ?  But  if  I  should  go  the 
people  will  assuredly  point  me  out  and  say  with 
smiles  :  '  Yonder  is  Prince  Wee's  wife,  second  to  the 
Princesses  Blossom  and  Orchid.'  Such  would  mean 
contempt  for  the  Master,  and  would  prove  a  source 
of  anxiety  to  the  ladies.  I  certainly  cannot  go." 

The  Princess  said  :  "  In  what  possible  way  could 
the  Master  be  dishonoured  by  Cloudlet's  going,  or 
what  anxiety  could  that  be  for  us  ?  " 

Then  Cloudlet  answered  :  "  If  we  pitch  the  wide 
silken  awning  and  the  sky-coloured  tent,  the  people 
will  naturally  say  :  '  The  General's  beloved  wife 
Cloudlet  is  coming,'  and  they  will  rub  shoulders  and 
crowd  heels,  and  strive  to  see  and  push  up  for  a  place, 
and  after  all  will  behold  only  my  ill-starred  face  and 
frowzy  head,  and  they  will  say  with  amazement : 
*  General  Yang  must  have  disease  of  the  eyes  to  have 
chosen  such  as  she  for  wife  ' ;  and  will  this  not  be  a 
cause  of  disgrace  to  the  Master  ?  Prince  Wol  has 
never  yet  set  eyes  upon  a  contemptible  performer, 
and  if  he  should  see  me  he  would  undoubtedly  be 
filled  with  nausea  and  be  made  ill.  Will  not  the  two 
ladies  be  disgraced  likewise  ?  " 

251 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

The  Princess  said  :  "  Cloudlet,  really  your  mod- 
esty is  amazing.  Once  upon  a  time  you  changed  from 
a  girl  into  a  spirit ;  now  you  want  to  change  from  a 
peerless  beauty  into  a  perfect  fright.  I  cannot  trust 
you,  Cloudlet,  at  all."  So  she  referred  the  matter  to 
the  Master,  saying  :  "  In  your  reply  what  day  have 
you  decided  upon  ?  " 

The  Master  replied  :  "  We  have  decided  upon  to- 
morrow." 

Wildgoose  and  Moonlight  gave  a  start  of  dismay, 
saying  :  "  No  orders  have  as  yet  been  issued  to  the 
two  divisions  of  dancing-girls.  How  can  you  possibly 
have  it  in  as  short  a  time  ?  "  They  then  called  their 
leaders  together  and  said  :  "  The  Master  has  ap- 
pointed a  general  gathering  for  to-morrow  with 
Prince  Wol  at  the  Festal  Grounds,  when  all  the 
dancing  girls  of  the  two  divisions  are  to  gather  in 
their  best  outfits,  setting  forth  at  earliest  dawn." 

Eight  hundred  dancers  heard  this  command,  drew 
long  faces  and  lifted  their  eyebrows.  But  they  took 
their  instruments  in  hand  and  began  to  tune  up  in 
preparation. 

On  the  next  day  the  Master  arose  early,  dressed  in 
ceremonial  robe,  took  bow  and  arrows,  and  mounted 
his  snow-white  charger.  With  three  thousand  chosen 
huntsmen  to  attend  him,  he  passed  through  the 
South  Gate  of  the  city.  Moonlight  and  Wildgoose, 
specially  dressed  and  bedecked  in  gold  ornaments 
and  chiselled  green  stones,  and  wearing  flower  em- 
broideries, were  in  command  of  the  dancers.  They 
rode  mounted  on  beautifully  caparisoned  horses, 
seated  in  gilded  saddles,  with  silver  stirrups  hanging 
by  the  side,  and  jewelled  bridle  reins  in  hand.  They 

252 


In  the  Fairy  Lists 

raised  their  coral  whips  and  followed  close  behind 
the  Master,  while  eight  hundred  dancers  mounted 
on  beautiful  horses  brought  up  the  rear. 

On  the  main  roadway  they  met  Prince  Wol,  and 
lo  !  he  had  hunters  and  musicians  enough  to  equal 
those  of  Master  Yang. 

Thus  they  rode  side  by  side,  when  Prince  Wol 
asked  of  General  Yang  :  "  What  breed  of  horse  is 
that  you  ride,  sir  ?  " 

The  Master  replied  :  "A  Persian  horse.  It  seems 
to  me  that  the  one  your  Highness  rides  is  the  same." 

Prince  Wol  made  answer  :  "  Yes,  that  is  so.  This 
horse's  name  is  '  Thousand  Mile  Cloud  Breed.'  Last 
year,  in  the  autumn,  while  out  hunting  along  with 
the  Emperor,  there  were  over  ten  thousand  horses 
from  the  Imperial  stables  present.  There  were  perfect 
wild  wind  flyers  among  them,  but  none  of  them 
could  equal  this  one.  Now  Nephew  Chang's  fast 
horses  and  General  Yi's  black  steeds  are  both  said  to 
be  specially  fine,  but  compared  with  mine  they  could 
hardly  be  dignified  by  the  name  of  horse." 

The  Master  said  :  **  Last  year  when  I  led  the  attack 
on  Tibet  over  deep  and  dangerous  waters  and  by 
precipitous  cliffs  where  a  man  could  not  go,  this 
horse  walked  as  freely  as  if  he  were  on  level  ground, 
and  never  once  missed  his  footing.  Any  success  I  had 
was  largely  due  to  this  good  steed's  efficiency.  You 
know  Too-jami  says  :  *  One  in  heart  with  man  and 
equal  to  him  in  merit.'  He  refers  to  the  horse. 

"  After  I  had  brought  back  the  forces  my  rank  was 
raised  and  I  laid  down  office,  so  that  I  rode  lazily  in 
a  palanquin  and  went  softly  along  the  easy  way  of 
life  till  both  horse  and  man  were  ready  to  fall  ill. 

253 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Please  let  xis  lay  on  the  whip  and  have  a  race  and  see 
which  of  these  two  steeds  will  win.  Let  us  show  the 
ancients  what  we  can  do  in  the  daring  field  of  cour- 
age. 

Prince  Wol  was  greatly  delighted  and  said : 
"  Those  are  my  sentiments  exactly." 

Then  they  ordered  the  leaders  who  followed  them 
with  the  two  companies  of  guests  and  dancers  to  wait 
in  the  tent  pavilion.  They  were  about  to  lay  on  the  whip 
when  suddenly  a  huge  stag  that  had  been  awakened 
by  the  hunters  dashed  past  Prince  Wol.  The  Prince 
called  to  the  two  keepers  of  the  seal  to  shoot.  Several 
let  fly  their  arrows  simultaneously,  but  they  all 
missed,  and  the  Prince,  disgusted,  dashed  forth  on 
his  horse  and  with  one  shot  in  the  side  felled  the  huge 
beast.  The  soldiers  shouted  :  "  Long  live  the  Prince." 

The  Master  said  :  "  Your  marvellous  bow  outdoes 
King  Yo-yang." 

But  the  Prince  said  in  reply  :  "  What  is  there  to 
praise  in  a  little  thing  like  that  ?  I  would  like  to 
see  your  Excellency  shoot ;  won't  you  give  me  a 
sample  ?  " 

Before  he  had  done  speaking,  a  pair  of  swans  came 
sailing  along  in  the  rifts  of  the  cloud,  and  the  soldiers 
shouted  :  "  These  birds  are  hardest  of  all  to  hit ; 
we  must  use  a  Hadong  falcon." 

The  Master  said  :  "  Don't  disturb  them,"  but 
carefully  fitted  an  arrow  to  his  bow  and  let  fly, hitting 
a  bird  and  driving  the  shaft  straight  through  its  head 
so  that  it  fell  before  the  horses. 

The  Prince  gave  a  shout  of  applause  and  remarked : 
"  Your  Excellency's  skill  is  equal  to  that  of  Yang- 
yoo." 

254 


In  the  Fairy  Lists 

Then  the  two  suddenly  raised  their  whips  and  away 
they  dashed  on  horseback,  like  shooting  stars,  or  like 
devils  of  the  night,  with  demon  flashes  of  fire  accom- 
panying. In  an  instant  they  had  crossed  the  wide 
plain  and  had  scudded  up  the  hill. 

The  two  riders  drew  rein  exactly  even.  For  a  time 
they  stood  gazing  out  over  the  wide  expanse  and 
talked  of  music  and  archery.  Little  by  little  the  ser- 
vants began  to  approach  them,  bringing  the  deer  and 
the  swan  on  bearers,  which  they  offered  to  the  Prince 
and  to  the  Master. 

The  two  dismounted,  sat  on  the  grass,  drew  the 
sword  that  was  in  the  hilt  and  cut  some  of  the  meat, 
which  was  cooked  and  eaten.  They  passed  the  glass 
in  mutual  congratulation.  As  they  gazed  into  the 
distance  they  saw  two  red-coated  yamen  servants 
running  towards  them  at  great  speed  with  a  host  of 
people  following. 

One  rushed  forward  to  say  :  "  The  Emperor  and 
the  Empress  have  sent  out  refreshments." 

The  Prince  and  the  Master  then  returned,  went  into 
the  pavilion  and  waited.  Two  officers  of  the  Court 
poured  out  the  Imperial  wine  and  ordered  two  others 
to  bring  specially  decorated  writing  paper. 

They  each  took  one  in  hand,  knelt  down,  opened 
the  roll  and  the  subject  suggested  was  **  The  Hunt," 
and  the  command  was  given  to  write. 

What  the  Master  wrote  ran  as  follows  : 

"  In  early  morning,  with  all  the  combatants,  off  we 

go, 
With  glittering  swords  and  arrows  like  shooting 
stars. 

255 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

The  tent  is  filled  with  the  prettiest  faces  in  the 
land  ; 

In  pairs,  before  the  horses,  are  the  keen-eyed  fal- 
cons. 

We  unite  to  taste  with  grateful  hearts  the  sweet 

wine  of  the  king. 
We  draw  the  glittering  sword  and  cut  from  the  high 

roast  before  us. 

I  think  of  last  year,  and  the  wild  western  hordes, 
While  I  go  forth  on  this  happy  hunt  to-day." 

Prince  Wol  wrote  : 

Flying  dragons  go  by  us  like  the  lightning. 
Fitted   to  the  saddle,  and  accompanied  by  the 
rattling  drum. 

Swift  like  shooting  stars,  like  arrows  that  strike  the 

deer. 
Round  as  the  moon,  flash  the  bows  and  the  falling 

wildgoose  answers. 

The  joy  of  the  hunter  rises  in  the  keen  zest  of  the 

play. 
While  all  faces  shine  from  the  royal  wines  that  flow. 

Let's  no  more  talk  of  the  fine  shots  of  Yo-yang  ; 
How  could  he  ever  equal  the  feats  of  this  happy 
day  ?  " 


256 


In  the  Fairy  Lists 

The  officials  received  the  compositions,  bade  fare- 
well and  returned  within  the  city,  while  the  two  com- 
panies of  guests  sat  each  in  rows  and  the  stewards 
passed  refreshments.  Who  can  tell  of  the  delightful 
flavour  of  wine  mixed  with  milk  and  of  the  tender 
lips  of  the  monkey  ?  Fruit  was  there  from  Wol,  and 
potatoes  from  Yong  piled  high  on  the  green  stone 
platters,  and  such  a  banquet  none  had  ever  seen  even 
at  the  Lake  of  Gems  with  the  Western  Queen 
Mother  presiding.  One  need  not  speak  of  gatherings 
under  Moo-jee  of  Han  or  of  such  delicacies  or  de- 
lights ever  having  been  seen  before. 

Behold  the  dancers  ready,  a  thousand  strong,  in 
ranks  three  deep  with  the  broad  silk  awning  shad- 
ing them.  The  sound  of  gems  and  ornaments  was  like 
rippling  thunder  ;  the  slender  waists  of  the  dancers 
were  more  lithe  than  the  willow  ;  the  hundred  pretty 
faces  vied  with  the  flowers  in  freshness  and  beauty  ; 
the  sound  of  harps  and  flutes  surpassed  the  music  of 
many  waters  ;  the  singing  made  the  whole  South 
Movmtain  to  tremble. 

When  the  glass  was  passed  Prince  Wol  said  to  the 
Master  :  "I,  your  humble  servant,  have  been  the 
recipient  of  your  abundant  favour,  and  there  is  no 
way  by  which  I  can  return  my  lively  appreciation. 
I  want  once  to  make  you  glad  through  the  maids-of- 
honour  that  I  have  brought  with  me,  so,  if  you 
please,  I  will  call  them  and  make  them  sing  and  dance 
before  your  Excellency." 

The  Master  thanked  him  and  said  :  "  How  should 
your  humble  servant  look  upon  the  ladies  of  my  lord's 
household,  but  since  we  are  brothers,  bound  together 
by  your  sister's  gracious  favour,  I  shall  venture  to  be 

257  s 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

so  bold.  I,  too,  have  my  household  here  who  desire 
to  see  the  celebration,  and  I  shall  call  upon  them  to 
accompany  the  ladies  of  your  palace,  each  following 
the  music  according  to  her  own  special  skill,  and  so 
add  cheer  to  the  occasion." 

The  Prince  replied  :  "  Good,  how  happy  your 
suggestion  is." 

Then  Moonlight  and  Wildgoose  and  four  dancers 
of  Prince  Wol  came  forth,  and  made  their  obeisance 
before  the  dais. 

The  Master  said  :  "In  ancient  times  King  Yong 
had  one  famous  dancing-girl  whose  name  was  Lotus 
Bud.  Yi  Tai-baik  earnestly  requested  King  Yong 
that  he  might  hear  her  sing,  but  he  never  dreamed  of 
asking  to  see  her  face.  Now  I,  your  himible  servant, 
see  all  these  pretty  dancers  and  behold  their  beauty, 
and  am  therefore  blessed  many  times  beyond  Yi 
Tai-baik.  What  are  the  names  of  these  four, 
please  ?  " 

The  four  then  advanced  and  gave  answer  for  them- 
selves, saying  :  "  I  am  the  Cloud  Fairy  of  Keiun- 
neung  ;  I  am  Hair  Pin  of  Chin-joo  ;  I  am  Ok-yon 
of  Moo-chang  ;  I  am  Soft  Whirmy  of  Chang-an." 

Then  the  Master  remarked  to  Prince  Wol :  "  When 
I  was  a  young  scholar  and  travelled  from  place  to 
place,  I  heard  the  famous  name  of  Ok-yon.  Now  that 
I  see  her  face  to  face  she  far  surpasses  in  beauty  the 
renown  that  preceded  her." 

Prince  Wol  hearing  the  names  of  Moonlight  and 
Wildgoose,  and  recognising  them,  said :  "  These  two 
famous  women  are  noted  the  world  over,  and  now 
they  have  become  attached  to  your  Excellency's 
household.  They  certainly  have  been  very  fortunate 

258 


In  the  Fairy  Lists 

in  the  master  they  have  chosen.  I  wonder  where  you 
first  met  them  ?  " 

The  Master  replied  :  "  Moonlight  I  met  on  my 
way  to  examination.  When  I  reached  Nak-yang  she 
came  to  me  of  her  own  accord.  Wildgoose  was  origin- 
ally attached  to  the  palace  of  the  King  of  Yon,  but 
when  I  went  there  as  envoy  she  made  her  escape  and 
followed  me." 

The  Prince  clapped  his  hands,  laughed,  and  said  : 
"  Wildgoose  had  courage  indeed." 

The  Master  went  on  :  "  When  I  think  of  those 
days,  really  it  is  amusing.  A  poor  scholar  like  me, 
riding  a  mean  little  donkey,  with  but  a  boy  to  accom- 
pany me,  started  out  on  my  way.  I  was  overtaken 
with  thirst,  and  drank  overmuch  fragrant  wine,  and 
when  crossing  Chon-jin  Bridge  found  several  score 
of  the  literati  youth  enjoying  themselves  with  music 
and  dancing.  I  took  courage  and  went  in.  My  poor 
clothes  and  headgear  were  put  to  shame  by  the  dresses 
of  the  slaves  that  served.  But  I  took  a  seat  and  there 
was  Moonlight.  In  the  exhilaration  of  the  moment  I 
never  thought  of  making  a  laughing-stock  of  myself 
but  wrote  a  verse  or  two.  I  do  not  know  now  what  I 
wrote  or  what  it  was  like,  but  Moonlight  chose  it 
before  all  the  others  and  sang  it.  There  had  been  an 
agreement  in  the  first  place  that  Moonlight  should 
be  given  to  the  one  whose  verse  she  chose  to  sing,  so 
there  was  no  question  that  she  was  mine  ;  besides  it 
was  a  predestined  affinity  that  settled  the  matter  be- 


tween us." 


Prince  Wol  laughed  and  said  :  "  You  are  winner 
in  more  than  one  field.  Certainly  to  win  her  was  more 
marvellous  and  delightful  than  being  crowned  with 

259 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

laurel.  I  am  sure  what  you  wrote  must  be  very  fine 
indeed.  Might  I  hear  it  ?  " 

The  Master  repUed  :  "  How  can  I  possibly  recall 
what  I  wrote  then  ?  " 

Then  the  Prince  said  to  Moonlight :  "  The 
Master  has  forgotten  the  verse  that  he  wrote  when  he 
first  met  you.  Can  you  not  recite  it  for  me  ?  " 

Moonlight  said  :  "I  remember  it  well ;  shall  I 
write  it  out  and  hand  it  to  your  Highness,  or  shall 
I  sing  it?" 

The  Prince,  pleased  with  the  reply,  said :  "  If  you 
would  sing  it,  as  well  as  give  it  to  me,  I  should  be 
delighted." 

Then  Moonlight  advanced  and  sang,  so  that  the 
assembled  guests  were  transfigured  with  joy.  The 
Prince,  overcome  with  a  sense  of  wonder  and  awe, 
praised  her,  saying  :  "  Your  Excellency's  gift  in 
writing  and  Moonlight's  soft  compelling  song  are 
nowhere  to  be  equalled.  The  bouquets  of  flowers  that 
bloom  forth  from  that  song  of  yours  rival  the  pretty 
girl's  soft  robes  and  ornaments.  It  would  make  even 
Yi  Tai-baik  take  a  second  place.  How  can  those  who 
make  a  pretence  at  writing  nowadays  ever  venture  to 
look  at  such  ?  " 

Wine  was  then  passed  in  a  golden  goblet  filled  to 
the  brim,  and  thus  were  Moonlight  and  Wildgoose 
rewarded. 

The  four  dancers  from  Prince  Wol's  palace  and 
these  two  sang  together  the  tune  of  "  Long  Life," 
and  the  assembled  guests  announced  them  angels 
from  heaven.  Ok-yon's  name  was  rated  with  that  of 
Moonlight  and  Wildgoose.  The  three  others,  while 
not  equal  to  Ok-yon,  were  yet  wonderfully  skilful. 

260 


In  the  Fairy  Lists 

The  Prince ,  congratulating  himself  on  the  occasion , 
and  highly  pleased,  now  asked  all  the  guests  to  step 
forth  from  the  tent  to  see  the  military  master's  sword 
exercise,  spear  drill  and  charging  in  the  lists. 

He  said :  "  The  women's  horsemanship  and 
shooting  with  the  bow  are  worth  seeing.  Several 
among  my  palace  maids  are  adepts.  Your  Excellency 
has  among  yours,  no  doubt,  women  from  the  north, 
who  would,  if  you  gave  command,  shoot  a  rabbit  or 
pheasant  for  the  amusement  of  the  assembled  com- 
pany." 

The  Master  was  pleased  at  this  and  gave  the  order 
for  a  score  or  more  to  be  chosen  who  were  practised 
with  the  bow  and  in  dashing  horsemanship.  These, 
with  the  maids  from  the  palace  of  Prince  Wol,  laid 
wagers.  Suddenly  Wildgoose  stepped  forward  and 
said  :  "  Though  I  am  not  trained  with  the  bow,  still 
I  have  seen  a  great  deal  of  riding  and  shooting  and 
to-day  I  should  like  to  try." 

The  Master  gave  ready  assent,  unfastened  the  bow 
from  his  own  belt  and  handed  it  to  her. 

Wildgoose  took  it  and  said  to  the  combatants  : 
"  Even  though  I  do  not  hit  the  mark  you  girls  must 
not  laugh  at  me."  At  once  she  mounted  as  if  by  wing 
one  of  the  fast  horses  and  sped  away  from  before  the 
tent.  Just  then  a  pheasant  came  flying  from  the  copse. 
Wildgoose  instantly  straightened  her  slender  back, 
grasped  the  bow,  and  the  arrow  went  singing  through 
the  air,  when  a  bunch  of  feathers  in  all  the  five 
colours  fell  before  the  horse's  head. 

The  Master  and  the  Prince  clapped  their  hands 
and  gave  a  ringing  outburst  of  applause. 

Wildgoose  turned  rapidly,  rode  back  and  alighted 

261 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

before  the  tent.  She  walked  slowly  to  her  place  and 
sat  down  while  all  the  girls  congratulated  her,  saying : 
"  We  have  trained  for  ten  years  and  all  to  no  purpose." 

But  Moonlight  turned  to  her  and  said  :  "  Though 
we  two  have  not  been  beaten  by  the  dancers  from 
Prince  Wol's  palace,  still  there  are  four  of  them  and 
we  only  two.  This  is  hard  work.  Our  not  bringing 
Cloudlet  was  a  great  mistake.  Though  dancing  and 
singing  are  not  Cloudlet's  speciality,  her  beauty  and 
grace  are  such  as  would  hold  their  own  with  Ok-yon's 
company."  She  gave  a  sigh.  Suddenly  two  women 
were  seen  coming  from  the  farther  side  of  the  grounds 
in  a  swift  palanquin  across  the  blooming  green  sward. 
They  reached  the  entrance  of  the  pavilion,  when  the 
gate-keeper  said  :  "  Do  you  come  from  Prince  Wol's 
palace,  or  from  the  home  of  the  Prince  of  Wee  ?  " 

The  charioteer  replied  :  "  These  two  ladies  are 
from  the  household  of  General  Yang.  They  have 
been  delayed,  and  so  did  not  get  here  at  first  with 
the  others." 

The  soldier  guards  then  went  in  and  reported  the 
matter. 

Master  Yang  said  :  "  It  is  evidently  Cloudlet  who 
has  come  to  see,  but  why  has  she  come  in  this  un- 
accountable way  ?  Call  her  in." 

The  two  ladies  wearing  embroidered  shoes  alighted 
from  the  palanquin.  In  front  was  Swallow,  and  be- 
hind was  the  maiden  seen  so  clearly  in  the  dream, 
the  daughter  of  the  Tong-jong  Dragon  King.  The 
two  came  forward  before  the  Master  and  bowed. 

Then  Yang  pointed  towards  Prince  Wol  and  said  : 
"  This  is  his  Highness  Prince  Wol ;  go  and  make 
your  obeisance  to  him." 

262 


i-^ij- 


1' 

^ 

1 

fl 

^'k 

t 

€. 

/Ta& 

«f 

In  the  Fairy  Lists :  Swallow  and  White-cap  Enter 


In  the  Fairy  Lists 

When  they  had  done  so,  the  Master  gave  orders 
that  they  should  be  placed  beside  Wildgoose  and 
Moonlight.  Then  he  said  to  Prince  Wol :  "  These 
two  maidens  I  met  first  on  my  campaign  against  the 
Tibetan.  I  have  been  so  busy  recently  that  I  did  not 
have  opportunity  to  bring  them  before.  They  have 
come  in  order  that  they  might  enjoy  the  music  and 
see  the  sights  of  the  day." 

When  the  Prince  had  looked  at  them  again  he  saw 
that  they  were  beautiful,  like  sisters  to  Moonlight 
and  Wildgoose,  with  their  grace  of  form  even  en- 
hanced if  that  were  possible. 

The  Prince  was  astonished,  and  all  the  faces  of  the 
galaxy  from  his  palace  turned  pale  as  ashes. 

He  asked  :  "  What  are  the  names  of  these  two 
ladies  and  where  are  they  from,  please  ?  " 

One  of  them  replied,  saying :  "  I  am  Sim,  the 
Swallow.  I  come  from  west  Yang-joo."  And  the 
other  replied,  saying  :  "  I  am  White-cap,  who  came 
originally  from  the  neighbourhood  of  the  So-sang 
River.  Unfortunately  I  met  with  trouble  and  made 
my  escape  from  home  and  have  taken  refuge  with 
the  Master." 

The  Prince  said  :  "  These  two  maidens  are  not 
mortals,  I  am  sure.  Do  they  know  how  to  play  the 
harp  ?  " 

Swallow  replied  :  "I  am  a  humble  person  from 
a  distant  part  and  never  heard  the  harp  in  my  early 
days.  By  what  possibility  could  I  entertain  your 
Highness  ?  In  my  childhood  I  learned  the  sword 
dance,  but  this  is  an  entertainment  of  the  camp  and 
not  of  the  drawing-room." 

The  Prince  was  now  all  excitement  and  said  to  the 

263 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Master  :  "In  the  days  of  Hyon-jong,  the  great 
dancer,  Kong-son  was  renowned  the  world  over  for 
her  skill  in  sword-dancing.  Later  generations  lost 
the  art  and  I  have  always  felt  sorry  that  I  have  not 
seen  it.  Now  that  you  say  the  maid  is  skilled  in  sword- 
dancing  I  am  more  delighted  than  ever." 

Then  the  Prince  and  the  Master  each  drew  from  their 
belt  the  sword  that  they  carried  and  gave  it ;  Swallow 
fastened  up  her  sleeves,  put  off  her  belt  ornaments 
and  stepped  forth  to  dance.  At  once  from  top  to  floor 
came  the  flashing  of  the  blades,  and  the  swift  fierce 
passings  from  side  to  side.  The  red  cheeks  and  bright 
sword  blades  melted  into  one,  like  the  snows  of  the 
third  moon  that  fall  on  the  red  buds  of  the  springtime. 
Suddenly  the  speed  of  the  sleevelets  increased,  and 
the  whirling  edges  went  faster  and  fiercer,  till  a  blaze 
of  white  light  filled  the  tent  and  Swallow's  form  was 
lost  entirely  to  view.  Mysteriously  a  rainbow  halo 
suddenly  appeared  and  a  cool  wind  was  felt  to  pass 
between  the  cups  and  glasses  of  the  feast  board.  All 
the  assembled  company  felt  a  shuddering  in  their 
bones  and  their  locks  stood  on  end. 

Swallow  intended  to  give  an  exhibition  of  the 
various  forms  she  had  learned,  but  fearing  that  it 
would  cause  alarm  to  the  Prince,  stopped,  threw 
down  the  sword,  bowed  and  retired. 

The  Prince  was  some  time  in  recovering  his 
senses;  then  he  said  :  "  How  could  any  mortal  attain 
to  such  skill  as  that  ?  I  have  heard  that  many  fairies 
are  skilled  in  the  sword-dance.  Tell  me  are  you  not  a 
fairy  ?  " 

Swallow  said  in  reply  :  "  The  custom  of  the  west 
is  to  practise  feats  of  skill  with  military  weapons,  so 

26  ij. 


In  the  Fairy  Lists 

I  learned  this  when  I  was  a  child.  Why  should  you 
think  me  a  fairy  ?  " 

The  Prince  said  :  *'  When  I  go  back  to  my  palace, 
the  best  dancers  among  my  maids  shall  be  chosen  and 
sent  to  you  in  the  hope  that  you  will  kindly  teach 
them." 

Swallow  bowed  and  gladly  assented. 

The  Prince  then  asked  White-cap  :  "  What  special 
skill  have  you,  young  lady  ?  " 

White-cap  replied  :  "  My  home  overlooked  the 
So-sang  River,  the  place  where  A-whang  [43]  and 
Yo-yong  played  together,  where  the  skies  seem  so 
far  away,  and  the  nights  are  so  quiet,  with  soft 
breezes  and  a  clear  moon.  From  between  the  gentle 
rifts  of  the  clouds  I  have  heard  again  and  again  the 
strains  of  the  harp,  and  these  from  earliest  childhood 
I  set  myself  to  imitate.  I  used  to  play  there  alone  and 
was  so  happy.  I  am  afraid  your  Highness  would  not 
care  for  it,  however." 

The  Prince  said  :  "  In  the  writings  of  the  ancients 
we  read  that  A-whang  and  Yo-yong  played  upon  the 
harp,  but  I  have  never  heard  that  their  tunes  were 
passed  on  to  mortal  generations.  If  you  have  learned 
and  know  them  let  us  hear  them.  Why  should  we 
compare  them  with  the  common  music  of  the  day  ?  " 

Then  White-cap  drew  from  her  sleeve  a  small  harp 
and  played  in  tones  indescribably  tender,  clear  and 
persuasive,  like  waters  hurrying  through  the  mountain 
passes,  or  like  the  wildgeese  clamouring  the  long 
length  of  heaven.  All  the  guests  were  deeply  moved, 
and  tears  began  to  flow.  Suddenly  the  petals  of  the 
flowers  trembled  and  the  rustlings  of  autumn  broke 
in  upon  the  scene. 

265 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

The  Prince,  mystified,  said  :  "  I  never  heard  be- 
fore that  music  could  move  the  seasons  in  their 
course.  If  you  are  only  a  mortal,  how  is  it  that  you 
can  turn  spring  to  autumn,  or  cause  the  leaves  to 
fall  ?  Could  any  mere  human  being  ever  learn  a 
tune  such  as  this  ?  " 

White-cap  replied  :  "  I  have  passed  on  merely  the 
dregs  of  what  I  have  heard,  and  have  shown  no  special 
skill  in  the  little  that  I  have  played  for  you." 

Ok-yon  here  interrupted  and  addressed  the  Prince, 
saying :  "  Though  I  have  no  special  skill  of  my  own, 
yet  there  is  one  tune  that  I  should  like  to  play  to 
your  Highness.  It  is  called  the  Song  of  the  White 
Lotus.  Shall  I  play  it  ?  " 

She  took  up  a  harp  such  as  was  used  in  Chon- 
king's  time,  went  forward  and  began  to  twang  the 
strings.  Across  the  twenty-five  of  them  that  lined 
the  board,  passed  her  hands  in  sweet  and  lovely 
music,  well  worth  the  hearing.  The  Master  as  well  as 
the  two  dancers.  Moonlight  and  Wildgoose,  praised 
its  beauty  and  the  Prince  was  greatly  delighted. 


266 


Chapter  XV 
The  Wine  Punishment 

ON  this  day  of  the  happy  festival  Swallow 
and  White-cap  came  in  at  the  last  and  added 
the  final  touch  of  delight.  The  Master  and 
the  Prince,  while  desiring  to  stay  longer,  were  com- 
pelled by  the  falling  shadows  of  the  evening  to  break 
up  the  feast  and  return.  They  gave  to  each  performer 
rich  presents  of  gold,  silver  and  silk.  Grain  measures 
of  gems  were  scattered  about  and  rolls  of  costly 
materials  were  piled  up  like  hillocks.  The  Master 
and  the  Prince,  taking  advantage  of  the  moonlight, 
returned  home  to  the  city  amid  the  ringing  of  bells. 
All  the  dancers  and  musicians  jostled  each  other 
along  the  way,  each  desiring  to  be  first  to  return. 
The  sound  of  gems  and  tinkling  ornaments  was  like 
falling  water ;  and  perfume  filled  the  atmosphere. 
Straying  hairpins  and  jewelled  ornaments  were 
crushed  by  the  horses'  hoofs  and  the  passing  of 
countless  feet.  The  crowd  in  the  city,  desiring  to  see, 
stood  like  a  wall  on  each  side  of  the  way.  Old  men  of 
ninety  and  a  hundred  wept  tears  of  joy,  saying  :  "  In 
my  younger  days  I  saw  his  Majesty  Hyon-jong  out 
on  procession,  and  his  splendour  alone  could  be 
compared  with  this.  Beyond  all  my  expectations  I 
have  lived  till  to-day  and  now  see  this  happy  gather- 

ing." 

The  two  Princesses  with  Chin  See  and  Cloudlet 
were  with  the  mother  awaiting  the  return  of  the 
Master.  In  a  little  he  came,  bringing  in  his  train 

267 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Swallow  and  White-cap,  who  at  once  appeared  be- 
fore the  mother  and  the  two  Princesses  and  made 
their  salutations. 

Cheung  See  said  :  "  Your  Excellency  has  spoken 
very  often,  saying  that  by  the  help  of  these  two 
maidens  you  had  brought  into  subjection  whole 
districts  of  rebels.  I  was  always  sorry  that  I  had 
never  met  them.  Why  is  it,  girls,  that  you  have  come 
so  late  ?  " 

Swallow  and  White-cap  made  answer  :  "We  are 
unknown  people  from  a  distant  province,  and  though 
the  Master  has  kindly  looked  upon  us,  we  feared  that 
the  two  ladies  would  not  be  willing  to  accord  us  a 
place  with  them  so  we  hesitated  to  come.  But  now 
having  entered  the  gates  and  having  heard  the  people 
say  that  the  two  Princesses  were  blessed  with  the 
happy  hearts  of  Kwa-jo  and  Kyoo-mok,  and  that 
their  kindly  virtues  moved  high  and  low  alike,  we 
have  come  boldly  in  to  make  our  obeisance.  Just  at 
the  time  of  our  entrance  into  the  city  we  learned  that 
the  Master  was  engaged  in  the  Festal  Grounds  ;  so 
we  hurried  out  and  joined  in  the  happy  gathering. 
Now  that  your  kind  words  are  spoken  to  us  how 
delighted  indeed  we  are." 

The  Princess  laughed  and  said  to  the  Master  : 
"  To-day  we  have  a  garden  of  flowers  gathered  in 
the  palace.  Without  doubt  your  Excellency  vdll 
boast  of  it.  It  all  pertains  to  our  merits,  however, 
and  is  due  to  us  two.  You  must  not  think  it  due  to 
yourself." 

The  Master  laughed  heartily  and  said  :  "  The 
saying  runs,  '  Folks  in  high  places  like  praise.'  It 
seems  to  be  true.  These  two  come  for  the  first  time 

268 


The  Wine  Punishment 

to  the  palace,  and  are  afraid  of  the  dignity  of  your 
Highnesses,  so  they  have  resorted  to  flattery.  Do  you 
take  what  they  say  as  real  and  so  pride  yourselves  on 
your  own  merit?"  And  all  those  present  laughed. 

Then  Chin  See  and  Cloudlet  asked  of  Moonlight 
and  Wildgoose  :  "  Who  won  to-day  in  the  lists  ?  " 

Wildgoose  made  answer  :  "  Moonlight  laughed 
at  my  boasting,  and  yet  with  one  word  I  took  all  the 
courage  out  of  Prince  Wol.  Che  Kal-yang  on  a  little 
boat  like  the  leaf  of  a  tree  entered  Kang-dong,  and 
with  a  few  diminutive  words  made  clear  where  right 
and  wrong  lay,  so  that  Chu  Kong-geum  and  No  Ja- 
kyong  could  not  utter  a  syllable  for  shame.  Prince 
Pyong-won  went  to  the  kingdom  of  Cho  to  make  a 
contract  of  peace  and  amity,  while  the  nineteen  who 
accompanied  him  had  no  occasion  for  a  word,  and 
nothing  whatever  to  do.  It  is  because  my  heart  is 
large  that  my  lips  at  times  are  boastful ;  but  in  my 
boastful  words  there  lay  victory.  You  may  ask  Moon- 
light ;  she  knows  what  I  say  is  true." 

Moonlight  said  :  "  Wildgoose 's  skill  of  bow  and 
horseback  riding  is  indeed  wonderful  and  suited  to 
the  Festal  Ground,  but  if  arrows  and  stones  were 
raining  round  her  on  the  battlefield  she  would  not 
dare  to  ride  a  pace  or  draw  a  bow.  The  taking  all  the 
courage  out  of  Prince  Wol  was  due  to  the  arrival  of 
the  two  fairy  maids,  with  their  beauty  and  skill ; 
how  could  she  think  of  its  being  due  to  herself  ?  I 
have  just  one  word  to  say  to  Wildgoose,  and  I  will 
say  it  now.  In  the  days  of  the  Spring  and  Autumn 
Classic,  Minister  Ka  had  a  very  dirty,  unwashed 
face,  so  that  people  who  passed  by,  in  contempt,  spat 
upon  him.  He  was  married  for  three  years  without 

269 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

his  wife  once  having  smiled.  On  a  certain  day  he 
went  with  her  into  the  fields  when  he  chanced  to 
shoot  a  pheasant  that  was  flying  by.  His  wife  laughed 
for  the  first  time.  Wildgoose's  shooting  the  pheasant 
was  just  like  Minister  Ka.  He  was  no  good  and  yet 
he  shot  a  pheasant." 

Wildgoose  made  answer  :  "  Minister  Ka,  in  spite 
of  his  dirty  face,  by  means  of  skill  at  the  bow  and 
horsemanship,  made  his  wife  to  smile  ;  how  much 
more  would  one  with  skill  and  beauty  besides  when 
they  shoot  a  pheasant,  make  the  world  to  smile  and 
sing  their  praises." 

Moonlight  laughed  and  said  in  reply  :  "  Your 
boastfulness,  Wildgoose,  grows  apace.  It  is  because 
the  Master  loves  you  overmuch  that  you  are  vain 
and  proud." 

The  Master  laughed  and  said  :  "  I  knew  long  ago 
that  Moonlight  was  greatly  gifted,  but  I  never  knew 
that  she  was  up  in  the  Classics  as  well.  Now  I  find 
that  she  is  acquainted  with  the  Spring  and  Autumn 
Book." 

Moonlight's  answer  was  :  "In  my  leisure  I  used 
to  study  the  Classics  and  history,  but  how  could  you 
say  that  1  was  acquainted  with  them  ?  " 

On  the  following  day  the  Master  went  into  audi- 
ence before  his  Imperial  Majesty.  His  Majesty  sum- 
moned the  Empress  Dowager  and  Prince  Wol.  The 
two  Princesses  had  already  come  in  and  were  seated 
with  them. 

The  Empress  Dowager  said  to  Prince  Wol :  "  You 
and  the  General  had  a  contest  of  pretty  girls  yester- 
day ;  tell  me  who  won  ?  " 

270 


The  Wine  Punishment 

The  Prince  replied  :  "  I  was  altogether  defeated  ; 
no  one  can  hope  to  equal  General  Yang  in  the  bless- 
ings of  life  and  good-luck.  But  how  do  blessings  like 
these,"  pointing  to  the  secondary  wives,  "  appeal 
to  your  daughters,  I  wonder  ?  Please,  your  Majesty, 
ask  this  of  his  Excellency,  will  you  ?  " 

The  Master  broke  in  :  "  His  Highness 's  statement 
that  he  was  defeated  by  me  is  quite  aside  of  the  mark. 
It  is  like  Yi  Tai-baik  turning  pale  when  he  saw  the 
writing  of  Choi -ho.  Whether  this  is  a  happiness  to 
the  Princesses  or  not,  how  can  I  answer  ?  Please  ask 
their  Highnesses  themselves." 

The  Dowager  laughed  and  looked  toward  the 
Princesses,  who  replied,  saying  :  "  Husband  and  wife 
are  one,  whether  it  be  for  gladness  or  for  sorrow. 
There  can  be  no  difference  in  their  lives.  If  our  hus- 
band wins  glory  we  win  it  too,  but  if  failure  falls  to 
his  lot,  we  too  must  share  it.  Whatever  makes  him  glad 
makes  us  glad  also." 

Prince  Wol  said  :  "  My  sisters'  words  are  all  very 
sweet  to  listen  to,  yet  they  are  not  from  the  heart. 
Since  ancient  times  there  never  was  such  an  extrav- 
agant son-in-law  as  this  General.  It  would  indicate 
that  the  good  old  laws  that  once  prevailed  are  losing 
ground.  Please  have  his  Excellency  sent  to  the  Chief 
Justice,  and  his  contempt  of  court  and  disregard  of 
the  laws  of  State  looked  into." 

The  Dowager  laughed  and  said  :  "  Our  son-in- 
law  is  doubtless  somewhat  of  a  sinner  in  this  respect, 
but  if  you  desire  to  judge  him  according  to  the  law 
you  will  plunge  an  old  woman  like  me  and  my  two 
daughters  into  a  whirl  of  anxiety.  Let's  dispense  with 
the  State  laws  and  deal  with  him  privately." 

271 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Prince  Wol  then  said  :  "  Though  it  might  cause 
a  measure  of  anxiety  you  cannot  lightly  overlook  such 
a  sin  as  his.  Please  let  us  inquire  into  his  case  before 
your  Majesty,  determine  the  nature  of  his  offence, 
and  deal  with  him  accordingly,"  (He  then  wrote  as 
though  dictated  to  by  the  Empress.) 

The  Empress  laughed  while  Prince  Wol  hastened 
to  write  out  his  statement : 

**  Since  ancient  times  the  son-in-law  of  the  Em- 
press has  never  taken  to  himself  secondary  wives. 
This  is  not  due  to  the  fact  that  he  might  not  desire 
to  do  so,  nor  to  the  fact  that  he  lacked  sufficient 
food  and  clothes  to  give  them,  but  only  from  a  desire 
to  do  reverence  to  the  Emperor  and  honour  to  the 
State.  Now,  however,  if  we  regard  the  lofty  station 
of  the  two  Princesses,  they  are  daughters  of  my 
own,  and  in  their  bringing-up  and  attainment  they 
are  not  inferior  to  Im-sa  [44].  But  you,  Yang  So- 
yoo,  have  not  been  appreciative  of  this  or  of  your 
bounden  duty.  Instead  you  have  possessed  yourself 
of  a  spirit  of  lawlessness  and  wild  excess,  and  have 
lost  your  heart  over  every  painted  cheek  and 
powdered  head,  and  have  given  your  thought  to 
dainty  silks  and  gaudy  dresses.  You  have  gathered 
a  host  of  pretty  girls  together  in  an  astoundingly 
greedy  manner,  seeking  tliem  in  the  east  by  morn- 
ing light,  and  in  the  west  at  evening  time.  You 
have  let  the  light  and  the  lands  of  Cho  and  Yon  to 
blind  your  eyes,  and  you  have  allowed  your  ears 
to  be  filled  with  the  songs  of  the  Cheung  King- 
dom, condescending  to  look  on  groups  who  gather 
like  ants  in  the  music  halls,  or  like  bees  in  swarms 

273 


The  Wine  Punishment 

to  talk  and  chatter  together.  Though  the  Prin- 
cesses in  their  spirit  of  liberality  show  no  jealousy, 
how  about  your  duty  and  your  behaviour  in  the 
matter  ?  One  cannot  but  punish  a  sin  of  pride  and 
excess.  Now  let  us  have  no  dissimulation,  but  a 
straightforward  confession  and  an  acceptance  of 
the  sentence." 

The  Master  then  descended  from  the  dais,  put  off 
his  headgear  and  awaited  sentence.  Prince  Wol  went 
to  the  end  of  the  railed  enclosure,  and  in  a  loud  voice 
read  out  what  had  been  written,  and  after  the  Master 
had  heard  it  he  said  by  way  of  confession  :  "  Your 
Majesty's  humble  subject,  Yang  So-yoo,  has  pre- 
sumptuously accepted  of  favours  accorded  by  your 
two  Excellent  Majesties  and  has  been  crowned  with 
the  greatest  possible  glory,  having  the  two  Princesses 
made  his  very  own  with  all  their  true  and  matchless 
graces.  I  had  already  won  more  than  all  that  heart 
could  wish.  Still  I  was  ungrateful,  and  my  soul  did 
not  cherish  the  delight  of  the  modest  and  the  beauti- 
ful, but  loved  music  excessively,  as  well  as  dancing 
and  singing.  This  was  indeed  excess  beyond  what 
one  already  so  greatly  blessed  should  have  shown. 
Still,  as  I  humbly  read  the  laws  of  the  State,  the  son- 
in-law  of  her  Majesty  may  have  secondary  wives, 
that  is  if  they  be  taken  before  his  marriage  with  the 
first  Princess.  Though  I  have  secondary  wives,  my 
wife  Chin  See  is  mine  by  reason  of  the  command  of 
your  Excellent  Majesty,  concerning  which  there  can 
be  no  question.  My  wife  Cloudlet  was  my  attendant 
while  I  lived  in  the  home  of  Justice  Cheung.  My 
wives  Moonlight,  Wildgoose,  Swallow  and  White-cap 

273  T 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

were  taken  in  the  days  before  my  marriage  with  the 
Princesses.  Their  being  here  in  this  place  is  also  by 
command  and  with  the  permission  of  the  Princesses 
themselves,  and  not  by  reason  of  any  act  of  mine.  If 
we  speak  of  State  laws  or  your  Majesty's  expressed 
will,  I  feel  that  there  is  no  sin  in  this  that  deserves 
punishment.  These  are  your  humble  subject's  state- 
ments and  he  offers  them  in  fear  and  reverence." 

The  Empress  Dowager  on  hearing  this  laughed 
and  said  :  "  The  taking  to  himself  of  several  wives 
does  not  in  any  way  impair  the  dignity  of  the  Superior 
Man.  This  I  can  forgive,  but  excess  in  the  matter  of 
drink  causes  me  anxiety.  Be  careful !  " 

Prince  Wol,  however,  went  on  to  say  :  "  It  is  not 
right  that  the  son-in-law  should  take  so  many  wives. 
So-yoo,  too,  blames  the  Princesses,  forgetting  that 
he  has  his  own  responsibility  to  answer  for.  I  should 
like  to  have  him  properly  disciplined  for  this.  Please, 
your  Majesty,  ask  concerning  this  again." 

Then  Yang  in  a  state  of  embarrassment  bowed  his 
head  and  asked  forgiveness,  while  the  Dowager 
laughed  and  said  :  "  So-yoo,  while  my  son-in-law, 
is  indeed  a  Minister  of  State.  Why  should  I  treat 
him  as  a  son-in-law  ?  "  and  she  bade  him  put  on 
his  headgear  and  come  up  before  the  dais. 

Prince  Wol  said  :  "  Though  his  Excellency's  merit 
is  very  great,  and  it  is  difficult  to  punish  him,  still 
the  laws  of  the  State  are  strict  and  he  ought  not  to  go 
without  some  mark  of  reprimand.  You  might  try  the 
wine  punishment  upon  him." 

The  Dowager  laughed  and  gave  consent. 

The  palace  maids  then  brought  out  a  little  white 
stone  goblet,  but  Prince  Wol  said  :   "  The  General 

274 


The  Wine  Punishment :  Green  Mountain  Castle 


The  Wine  Punishment 

has  the  capacity  of  a  whale,  and  his  offence  is  so  great 
that  you  must  use  a  larger  dish  than  this."  So  they 
brought  a  huge  ornamented  gold  goblet  and  poured 
it  full  to  the  brim.  Although  the  Master's  capacity 
was  large  still  this  could  not  fail  to  make  him  drunk. 

He  nodded  his  head  and  said  :  "  The  Herdsman 
loved  the  Weaving  Damsel  very,  very  much,  and  was 
scolded  by  his  father-in-law.  I,  too,  for  taking  too 
many  wives,  am  punished  by  my  mother-in-law.  It 
is  indeed  difficult  to  fill  the  place  of  son-in-law  of  the 
Empress.  This  wine  has  gone  to  my  head  and  I  ask 
permission  to  retire,  please." 

The  Dowager  laughed  and  'ordered  the  palace 
nxaids  to  help  him  away.  She  said  also  to  the  two 
Princesses  :  "  The  Master  is  upset  and  feeling  ill, 
you  must  go  and  look  after  him." 

The  two  Princesses  obeyed  orders  and  followed. 

At  this  time  Madame  Yoo  had  lit  the  lamps  in  the 
main  hall  and  was  waiting  her  son's  return.  Seeing 
him  dnmk  she  said  in  amazement :  "  What  is  this  ? 
Drink  ?  I  have  seen  you  drink  before  but  never  saw 
you  drunk.   What  does  it  mean  ?  " 

The  Master,  with  intoxicated  look,  at  first  made  no 
reply,  but  after  a  time,  pointing  to  the  Princesses,  he 
said  :  "  The  Princesses'  brother.  Prince  Wol,  has 
prevaricated  to  the  Empress  Dowager  and  brought 
me  into  judgment.  I  pleaded  my  own  cause  with  skill 
and  really  cleared  myself,  but  the  Prince,  by  force, 
has  put  an  imaginary  fault  upon  me,  and  has  caused 
me  to  undergo  the  wine  punishment.  If  I  had  not 
been  accustomed  to  wine  I  should  have  died.  It  is 
nothing  but  the  result  of  his  mortification  of  having 
been  beaten  in  the  lists  yesterday.  He  wants  to  settle 

275 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

accounts  with  me,  I  see,  and  Orchid  is  jealoxis  of  my 
having  so  many  wives.  She  has  joined  her  brother  in 
this  scheme,  no  doubt.  Her  generous  heart  of  former 
days  seems  to  have  gone.  I  pray  you,  mother,  to  give 
Orchid  a  glass  of  punishment  as  well  and  so  make 
amends  for  this  disgrace  of  mine." 

The  mother  said  :  "  It  is  not  at  all  clear  that  Orchid 
is  guilty  as  you  say,  and  she  has  never  tasted  wine  in 
all  her  life.  If  you  desire  that  I  should  punish  her,  let 
it  be  with  a  cup  of  tea  instead." 

The  Master  said  :  "No,  that  will  not  do,  it  must 
be  wine." 

The  mother  laughed  and  said  to  Orchid  :  "If 
your  Highness  does  not  drink  of  it,  this  wretched 
fellow  will  not  be  satisfied,"  so  she  called  a  maid  and 
ordered  her  to  give  to  Orchid  a  glass  of  punishment. 

While  the  Princess  attempted  to  drink  it,  the 
Master  suddenly  expressed  a  doubt  and  tried  to  take 
the  glass  by  force  to  taste  it,  but  Orchid  quickly 
threw  it  on  to  the  matting.  The  Master  then  dipped 
his  finger  in  the  dregs,  tasted  it,  and  found  that  it 
was  only  sweetened  water. 

He  said  :  "  If  her  Majesty,  the  Empress,  had 
punished  me  with  sweetened  water,  my  mother's 
,  giving  sweetened  water  to  Orchid  would  have  been 
all  right,  but  I  have  had  to  drink  strong  wine,  so 
Orchid  must  have  strong  wine  too  and  not  sweetened 
water."  He  called  a  maid  and  bade  her  bring  a  glass 
and  he  himself  poured  it  full  and  sent  it.  The  Princess, 
having  no  alternative,  drank  it  all. 

Then  he  said  again  to  his  mother  :  "  The  one  who 
urged  the  Empress  to  give  me  wine  punishment  was 
Orchid,  but  Blossom  was  in  the  scheme,  too,  you 

276 


The  Wine  Punishment 

may  be  sure.  She  sat  before  the  Empress  and  saw  all 
my  confusion,  but  she  only  laughed  and  nodded  to 
Orchid.  There  is  no  fathoming  her.  My  desire  is  that 
you  punish  Blossom  too." 

The  mother  laughed  and  sent  the  glass  to  Cheung 
See.  Cheung  See  retired  from  her  place  and  drank  it. 

The  mother  then  said  :  "  The  Empress's  pun- 
ishment of  the  Master  was  on  account  of  his  having 
taken  so  many  wives.  The  two  Princesses  have  both 
had  to  drink  of  it,  how  can  you  girls  Escape  ?  " 

The  Master  said  :  "Prince  Wol's  meeting  me  on 
the  Festal  Field  was  simply  to  find  about  our  singers 
and  dancers,  and  there,  in  spite  of  all  his  great  com- 
pany, he  was  defeated  by  Wildgoose,  Moonlight, 
Swallow  and  White-cap.  Our  weak  numbers  put  his 
whole  palace  to  shame.  In  the  contest  we  won  the 
day,  and  this  is  why  Prince  Wol  has  vented  his  re- 
sentment on  me  and  caused  my  discomfiture.  These 
four  must  certainly  be  punished  as  well." 

The  mother  asked  :  "  Do  you  punish  those  who 
win  in  the  contest  ?  Yours  are  the  ridiculous  words 
of  a  drunken  man."  But  she  called  the  four  and  gave 
them  each  a  glass  ;  and  when  all  had  drunk.  Wild- 
goose  and  Moonlight  knelt  before  the  mother  and 
said  :  "  The  Empress's  punishment  of  the  Master 
was  assuredly  on  account  of  his  many  wives,  and  not 
because  of  his  having  won  the  day  on  the  Festal 
Field.  Swallow  and  White-cap  have  not  shared  the 
Master's  home  and  yet  they  have  been  punished 
also.  Will  this  not  be  a  source  of  resentment  later  ? 
Cloudlet  has  for  a  long  time  been  with  him,  and 
has  been  greatly  favoured,  but  she  did  not  share  the 
sports  on  the  Festal  Field,  and  so  has  escaped  the 

277 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

punishment  altogether.  The  rest  of  us  humble  folk 
feel  that  this  is  not  fair." 

"  You  are  perfectly  right,"  said  the  mother.  Then 
she  gave  a  large  glass  to  Cloudlet,  who  smothered  her 
laughter  and  drank  it,  so  all  were  made  to  share  alike 
in  the  glass  of  punishment  and  all  were  put  to  con- 
fusion. 

Princess  Orchid  was  overcome  and  in  great  dis- 
tress ;  but  Chin  See  sat  in  a  corner  in  a  manner 
wholly  unconcerned,  saying  nothing  and  without  a 
smile. 

The  Master  said  :  "  Chin  See  alone  is  not  moved 
by  it,  and  regards  all  the  rest  of  us  with  contempt. 
She  shall  be  punished  once  more."  So  he  poured 
out  another  glass  to  the  full  and  gave  it  to  Chin  See, 
who  took  it  with  a  laugh  and  drank  it. 

The  inother  asked  of  the  Princess  :  "  Your  High- 
ness has  never  tasted  of  this  before,  how  are  you 
feeling  ?  " 

She  replied  :  "  My  head  aches  terribly." 

The  mother  told  Chin  See  to  help  the  Princess  to 
her  room,  and  bade  Cloudlet  pour  out  another  ^ass 
and  bring  it.  She  took  the  glass  and  said  :  "  Our 
two  daughters  are  Princesses  of  the  Palace  and  I  feel 
that  I  am  wholly  unworthy  of  them.  Now  you  in 
your  intoxication  have  caused  them  much  discomfort. 
If  her  Majesty  the  Empress  hears  of  this  she  will 
be  very  much  disturbed.  I  have  failed  to  bring 
you  up  properly,  so  we  have  had  this  disgraceful 
scene  to-day.  I  cannot  say  that  I  am  without  sin  in 
the  matter,  so  I  shall  have  to  take  a  glass  myself." 
She  drank  it  all. 

The  Master,  alarmed,  knelt  and  said  :  "  Mother, 

278 


The  Wine  Punishment 

on  account  of  my  misdeeds,  you  have  yourself  shared 
in  the  glass  of  punishment.  A  beating,  such  as  you 
give  a  child,  would  not  be  enough  for  me."  Then  he 
made  Wildgoose  bring  still  another  big  glass.  He 
took  it  and,  kneeling,  said :  "I  have  not  lived  up  to 
the  teaching  of  my  mother,  but  have  caused  her  pain 
and  anxiety,  so  I  drink  this  extra  glass  for  shame." 
He  drank  it  all  and  was  so  overcome  that  he  could 
not  sit  up.  He  desired  to  go  to  his  room  and  made 
signs  accordingly.  The  mother  asked  Cloudlet  to 
help  him  away,  but  she  said  she  could  not  because 
Wildgoose  and  Moonlight  would  be  jealous,  so  she 
told  Moonlight  and  Wildgoose  to  do  so  instead. 

Moonlight  remarked  :  "  Cloudlet  does  not  wish 
to  do  it  on  account  of  what  I  said;  I  shall  not  either." 

Wildgoose  laughed,  arose  and  helped  the  Master 
away,  and  so  they  each  and  all  retired. 

Swallow  and  White-cap  were  great  lovers  of  the 
open  hills  and  streams.  This  the  Master  knew,  and 
had  made  for  them  a  beautiful  lake  in  the  middle  of 
the  Imperial  park.  There  he  erected  a  special  home 
which  he  called  "  Butterfly  Pavilion."  Here  White- 
cap  lived.  On  the  other  side  of  the  lake  was  a  hill 
whose  top  was  ornamented  with  great  rocks  that 
were  piled  one  above  the  other.  There  the  shadows 
of  the  ancient  pines  screened  the  light  and  the  spare 
graceful  bamboo  cast  its  grateful  shade.  Here  also 
was  a  house  built  which  he  called  "  The  Hall  of  Ice 
and  Snow  "  in  which  Swallow  took  up  her  abode. 
When  they  all  came  out  to  have  a  happy  time  in  the 
garden.  Swallow  and  White-cap  acted  as  hostesses 
of  the  sylvan  halls. 

279 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

The  several  sisters  asked  quietly  of  White-cap  : 
"  Could  you  explain  to  us  the  wonderful  law  of  meta- 
morphosis through  which  you  have  passed." 

White-cap  replied  :  "  That  is  something  that  be- 
longs to  a  former  existence.  Taking  advantage  of  the 
divine  wheel  of  change,  and  by  means  of  the  powers 
of  nature,  I  put  off  my  former  body  and  changed  my 
appearance.  The  scales  and  discarded  features  were 
very  gruesome  to  behold.  I  am  like  the  sparrow 
changed  into  a  clam.  How  can  you  expect  me  still 
to  have  wings  with  which  to  fly  ?  " 

The  ladies  all  said  :  "  Surely  the  principles  and 
laws  governing  such  a  thing  are  wonderful." 

Though  Swallow,  to  please  them,  sometimes  gave 
an  exhibition  of  sword-dancing  before  the  mother, 
the  Master  and  the  Princesses,  she  did  not  care 
to  give  it  often,  saying  :  "  Though  I  met  the  Master 
because  of  my  skill  of  hand  with  the  sword,  still  the 
suggestion  of  death  that  goes  with  it  does  not  make 
it  a  pleasant  exercise  nor  one  that  should  be  often 
indulged." 

From  this  time  on  the  two  ladies  and  the  six  sub- 
sidiary wives  were  all  gladness  and  joy  together,  like 
fishes  in  the  stream,  or  birds  that  flit  among  the 
clouds.  They  were  ever  united  in  heart  and  ever 
dependent  one  on  the  other  like  real  sisters,  while 
the  Master  regarded  them  with  love  all  alike.  Though 
it  was  due  to  the  goodness  of  the  two  ladies  that  the 
whole  house  was  so  happy,  still  it  was  specially  due 
to  the  fact  that  the  nine  had  all  been  once  together 
on  Nam-ak  Mountain  and  thus  their  wishes  were 
fulfilled. 

On  a  certain  day  the  two  Princesses  said  to  each 

280 


The  Wine  Punishment 

other  :  "  In  olden  days  sisters  were  known  to  marry 
into  one  and  the  same  family,  some  becoming  wives 
of  the  first  order,  and  some  becoming  wives  of  the 
second  order^  Now  we  two  wives  and  our  six  attend- 
ant sisters  love  each  other  more  than  those  born  of 
the  same  house  ;  and  among  us  are  some  who  have 
come  from  distant  regions.  How  could  this  be  other- 
wise than  by  the  ordinance  of  God  ?  Our  persons 
and  our  names  differ  one  from  the  other  ;  our  social 
conditions,  too,  were  widely  separated,  and  yet  here 
we  are  to-day  with  no  incongruity  to  mar  our  gather- 
ing. We  are  indeed  older  and  younger  sisters  and 
love  so  to  be  called." 

Thus  they  spoke  to  the  six  sisters,  when  these,  with 
great  earnestness,  disclaimed  any  such  possibility, 
maintaining  that  they  were  wholly  unworthy,  especi- 
ally Cloudlet,  Wildgoose,  and  Moonlight. 

Cheung  See  said  :  "  Yoo  Hyon-tok,  Kwan  On- 
jang,  and  Chang  Ik-tok  were  all  courtiers  of  the  king, 
and  yet  they  preserved  to  the  last  the  bond  of  brother- 
hood. How  much  more  should  I  be  a  loved  and 
trusted  sister  to  Cloudlet  who  was  my  dear  friend  in 
days  gone  by  ?  The  wife  of  Sokamoni  and  the  wife 
of  their  next-door  neighbour  were  worlds  apart  in 
social  standing,  and  also  in  virtue  and  chastity.  Still 
they  each  became  disciples  of  the  Buddha,  and  they 
became  one  in  heart.  One  rises  to  the  place  of 
illumination  and  rectitude." 

The  two  Princesses  said  to  the  six  :  "  Let  us  go 
to  the  Merciful  Buddha  who  sits  within  the  palace 
chapel  and  there  bum  incense  and  offer  prayer." 

They  wrote  out  a  solemn  oath  which  read  thus  : 
'*  Such  a  year,  such  a  day,  the  disciples  Cheung  called 

281 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Blossom,  Yi  called  Orchid,  Chin  called  the  Phoenix, 
Ka  called  Cloudlet,  Kay  called  Moonlight,  Chok 
called  Wildgoose,  Sim  called  Swallow,  Pak  called 
White-cap,  having  bathed  and  cleansed  their  hearts, 
come  now  with  all  reverence  before  the  great  Buddha 
of  the  Southern  Sea. 

"  People  of  the  world  oftentimes  reckon  all  within 
the  Four  Seas  as  brothers  because  they  are  similar  in 
thought  and  desire.  Even  those  bom  by  appointment 
of  God  as  brothers  in  the  same  family  sometimes 
view  each  other  as  strangers  and  unknown  passers 
by.  This  is  due  to  the  fact  that  they  fail  in  love  and 
have  no  common  interest.  We,  eight  disciples,  though 
we  have  been  born  at  different  places,  and  have  been 
separated  wide  as  the  four  corners  of  the  earth,  now 
serve  one  husband,  live  in  one  place,  and  are  one  in 
thought  and  life.  Our  love  is  perfect  and  flows  out 
to  each  other.  If  one  were  to  make  comparison  we 
are  surely  like  a  group  of  flowers  that  grew  on  one 
twig  and  fared  alike  in  wind  and  weather,  till  at  last 
one  fell  into  the  palace,  one  into  a  home  of  the  gentry, 
one  on  the  bank  by  the  way,  one  was  swept  into 
the  mountains,  one  borne  down  the  stream  and  out 
t6  sea,  but  if  we  seek  the  origin  it  will  be  found  that 
we  are  all  from  one  root  and  finally  shall  all  return 
at  last  to  one  place.  So  it  is  with  men  when  born 
of  a  similar  blood  though  separated  widely  by  the 
vicissitudes  of  time ;  they  all  come  home  to  abide 
together  in  the  end. 

"  The  past  has  far  receded  from  us.  But  in  it  we 
eight  were  born  at  one  and  the  same  time,  and  though 
we  have  been  separated  by  this  wide  expanse  of 
empire  yet  here  we  are  gathered  together  and  living 

282 


The  Wine  Punishment 

in  the  same  home.  This  is  truly  an  affinity  that  has 
come  down  to  us  from  a  former  existence  and  explains 
the  joy  and  gladness  of  our  present  life. 

"  So  we  eight  disciples  make  a  solemn  vow  and 
swear  an  oath  of  sisterhood  to  receive  together  the 
blessings  or  the  reverses  of  life  ;  to  live  together  and 
die  together  and  never,  never  to  part.  If  among  us 
there  be  any  otherwise  minded  and  forgetful  of  this 
oath,  may  God  strike  them  dead  and  may  the  invisible 
spirits  regard  them  with  abhorrence. 

"  We  humbly  pray  that  the  great  Buddha  may  give 
us  blessing  here  and  remove  from  us  all  sorrow,  and 
help  us  so  that  when  life  is  over  we  may  enter  the 
regions  of  the  blessed." 

The  two  ladies  hereafter  called  the  six  their  younger 
sisters,  but  they,  out  of  regard  for  their  humble 
station,  did  not  call  the  Princesses  older  sisters  though 
they  truly  loved  them  as  such  in  heart. 

They  each  were  blessed  with  children.  The  two 
Princesses,  Cloudlet,  Moonlight,  Swallow  and  Wild- 
goose  had  each  a  son,  while  Phoenix  and  White-cap 
had  each  a  daughter.  Not  once  did  any  of  them  see  a 
little  child  die  in  the  home,  which  is  an  experience 
that  differs  from  the  common  world  of  mortals. 

At  this  time  the  whole  world  was  at  peace,  with 
people  dwelling  safely  and  enjoying  years  of  plentiful 
harvest.  Little  was  there  for  the  Government  to  do. 

When  the  Emperor  went  on  hunting  expeditions 
the  Master  accompanied  him,  and  on  his  return  he 
would  retire  to  his  mother  and  family,  where,  with 
music  and  dancing,  he  passed  happy  days.  Their 
joy  and  gladness  accompanied  the  changing  seasons. 
With  years  of  office,  the  Master  enjoyed  great  reward 

283 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

and  prosperity.  But  in  the  providence  of  God  when 
peace  recedes  unrest  comes  in  its  place,  and,  when  joy 
has  reached  its  full,  sorrow  falls. 

Unexpectedly  the  lady  Yoo  fell  ill  and  died  at  the 
advanced  age  of  over  ninety.  The  Master  mourned 
deeply  and  sorrowed,  so  that  both  their  Majesties 
were  anxious  and  sent  a  eimuch  to  comfort  him  and 
attend  his  needs.  He  buried  his  mother  with  all  the 
honours  of  a  queen.  Justice  Cheung  and  his  wife  also 
passed  away  at  a  great  age,  and  he  mourned  for  them 
with  no  less  sorrow  than  Cheung  See  herself. 

The  Master's  six  sons  and  two  daughters  were  all 
blessed  with  the  beauty  and  comeliness  of  their 
parents,  like  jade-stones  and  orchid  flowers.  The 
eldest  son's  name  was  Great  Honour,  child  of  Cheung 
See,  and  he  rose  to  the  ofiice  of  Minister  of  Foreign 
Affairs  ;  the  second  son's  name  was  Lesser  Honour, 
a  son  of  Wildgoose,  and  he  rose  to  the  rank  of  Mayor 
of  the  Capital ;  the  third  was  Lightsome  Honour,  a 
son  of  Cloudlet,  who  became  Chief  Justice  ;  the 
fourth  was  Latest  Honour,  son  of  Princess  Orchid, 
who  became  Minister  of  War  ;  the  fifth  was  called 
Fifth  Honour,  Moonlight's  son,  who  rose  to  the  rank 
of  Chief  of  the  Literati ;  the  sixth  was  Final  Honour, 
a  son  of  Swallow.  At  fifteen  he  was  stronger  than  any 
grown  man,  and  was  like  the  genii  in  his  wisdom. 
The  Master  greatly  loved  him,  and  made  him  general- 
issimo of  the  forces.  He  commanded  the  forty  thou- 
sand soldiers  who  served  as  guard  for  the  Imperial 
Palace. 

The  eldest  daughter's  name  was  Tinted  Rose,  a 
child  of  Chin  See.  She  married,  later.  Prince  Wol's 
son.  The  second  daughter  was  called  Eternal  Joy, 

284 


The  Wine  Punishment 

bom  of  White-cap.  She  became  a  second  wife  of  the 
Prince  Imperial. 

The  Master,  who  originally  was  but  a  common 
literatus,  had  met  a  King  who  knew  his  worth  and 
took  advantage  of  his  mighty  talents.  He  it  was  who 
brought  a  great  war  to  a  glad  conclusion,  and  in  merit 
and  renown  equalled  Kwak  Poon-yang. 

The  Master  said  :  "  If  we  are  too  prosperous  mis- 
fortune easily  follows,  and  if  our  cup  of  joy  be  too 
full  a  danger  exists  of  running  over.  I  shall  now  make 
request  to  retire  from  office."  And  so  he  wrote,  "I 
bow  a  hundred  times  and  make  my  humble  petition 
to  his  Majesty.  My  desire  for  riches  and  long  life 
has  been  realised,  and  no  longer  does  anything 
remain  to  be  fulfilled.  Parents  ask  for  their  children 
only  riches  and  honour,  thinking  that  if  they  attain 
to  these  nothing  is  left  beyond.  Is  it  not  the  glory 
of  long  life  with  fame  and  wealth  that  the  world 
struggles  and  contends  for  ?  They  are  indeed  the 
things  that  the  human  heart  constantly  craves.  Men 
do  not  know  the  wisdom  that  says  *  Enough,'  but 
desire  ever  more  and  more  till  at  last  they  plunge 
themselves  into  the  sea  of  destruction  that  follows. 
Though  long  life  and  honour  have  their  attractive 
sides,  still  they  cannot  equal  a  contented  mind,  or 
dying  peacefully  in  one's  native  land.  Though  these  are 
things  we  rejoice  over,  how  can  they  equal  a  happy 
home  ?  My  abilities  were  of  a  mediocre  kind  and  my 
powers  limited,  yet  I  have  come  to  the  highest  estate 
possible  and  have  held  the  most  important  offices  in 
the  land.  I  have  had  every  honour  and  glory  ex- 
tended to  me.  My  earliest  ambitions  did  not  reach  a 
thousandth  part  of  what  has  come  to  pass.  Who 

285 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

would  have  guessed  that  such  lay  wrapped  away  in 
the  future  ?  Notwithstanding  my  humble  station,  I 
became  the  Imperial  son-in-law,  superior  to  all  the 
other  courtiers  of  the  Palace  ;  and  the  gifts  of  your 
'Majesty  have  been  showered  .  upon  me  beyond 
measure.  From  a  child  who  lived  on  herbs  I  have 
come  to  dine  on  the  richest  fare  ;  and  from  the  lowest 
origin  I  have  come  to  be  a  dweller  among  kings.  I 
fear  that  it  will  prove  a  blot  on  your  Majesty's  record 
and  a  wrong  that  I  have  permitted.  How  can  I  be 
happy  in  view  of  it  ?  In  my  early  days  I  desired  to 
hide  my  origin,  to  retire  from  the  world,  to  close  my 
gates,  to  refuse  all  favour  and  to  confess  my  presump- 
tion to  Heaven,  to  Earth,  and  to  the  invisible  spirits. 
But  your  Majesty's  favours  were  so  great  that  I 
could  not  resist  them  ;  and  since  I  was  strong  and 
well  in  physique,  I  accepted,  desiring  to  repay  -if 
possible  some  single  part  of  what  you  had  bestowed 
upon  me.  I  guarded  my  ancestral  graves,  and  so 
lived  out  my  life.  But  old  age  is  coming  on  and  my 
hair  is  growing  grey.  My  form  is  like  the  decaying 
tree  and  shows  the  approach  of  the  autumn  season 
and  signs  of  the  yellow  leaf.  My  heart  is  like  an  im- 
used  well,  which  though  never  drawn  from  still  runs 
dry.  Although  I  take  to  myself  as  my  model  the  dog 
and  the  horse  and  set  my  strength  in  an  effort  to 
requite  the  many  favours  that  have  been  accorded 
me,  there  is  no  way  open  by  which  to  do  it. 

"  May  your  Gracious  Majesty,  seeing  that  all  is 
quiet  in  the  outlying  regions  of  the  empire,  that  there 
is  no  need  longer  for  military  force  ;  that  the  people 
are  at  peace  and  that  the  sound  of  the  drum  has 
ceased  from  the  land,  grant  me  my  request.  God's 

286 


The  Wine  Punishment 

blessing  is  upon  you  and  the  harvest  is  rich  and 
plentiful  as  it  was  in  the  happiest  days  of  the  Three 
Kingdoms.  Even  though  you  hold  me  still  to  office, 
and  make  me  carry  on  affairs  of  State,  it  means  only 
the  expenditure  of  public  money  and  the  hearing  of 
Kyok-yang  songs.  What  special  profit  will  it  be,  or 
what  new  reform  can  you  expect  ? 

"  The  King  and  his  officer  are  like  father  and  son. 
Now  a  father  loves  even  an  ungrateful  son  because 
he  is  his  child  and  he  thinks  of  him  when  he  go6s 
beyond  the  gate.  I  pray  your  Majesty  to  look  upon  me 
as  aged  and  past  service.  I  desire  to  act  my  part  as  a 
child  does  towards  a  parent,  and  know  that  you  will 
think  of  me  as  the  best  parent  thinks  concerning  his 
son.  My  load  of  Imperial  favour  is  on  my  back.  How 
can  I  go  far  away  or  say  a  long  farewell  to  so  good  a 
King?  Since  you  cannot  fill  fuller  the  glass  already 
full,  and  since  a  broken  cart  can  no  more  be  ridden, 
my  prayer  is  that  your  Majesty  will  behold  how  I 
can  no  longer  bear  the  burden  of  State  and  let  me  go 
back  to  my  native  land  to  fill  out  my  span  of  life  and 
sing  for  ever  the  Imperial  praises." 

The  Emperor  read  this  memorial  and  wrote  the 
reply  with  his  own  hand  :  "  Your  Excellency's  great 
office  and  influence  have  been  a  blessing  to  all  the 
people.  Your  experience  has  been  of  immense  service 
to  the  State.  Your  prestige  and  weight  have  held  the 
empire  steady.  In  olden  days  Ta-kong  and  So-kong 
aided  the  kingdom  of  Cho  till  they  were  nearly  a 
hundred,  and  helped  in  the  minutest  affairs  of  gov- 
ernment. Your  Excellency  has  not  yet  reached  the 
limit  of  age  when  office  is  laid  down,  and  though 
you  excuse  yourself  and  desire  to  retire  I  cannot 

287 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

grant  it.  The  pines  and  the  firs  of  the  forest  look  with 
contempt  upon  the  snow  and  are  strong  in  spirit, 
while  the  willows  have  their  leaves  stripped  from 
them  when  they  meet  the  cold  winds,  because  they 
are  not  courageous  in  soul.  Your  Excellency  is  of  the 
nature  of  the  pine  and  the  fir,  how  can  you  be  anxious 
concerning  a  fate  similar  to  that  of  the  willow  and 
the  poplar  ? 

"  As  I  behold  you,  you  seem  as  young  as  ever  ; 
your  strength  has  not  diminished  since  the  day  you 
first  took  office.  It  is  as  vigorous  as  it  was  when  you 
crossed  the  Wee  Bridge  to  fight  against  the  rebels. 
Though  you  say  you  are  old  I  do  not  accept  it.  By 
all  means  change  your  attitude  from  that  of  So-boo 
[45]  and  aid  me  in  my  government.  This  is  my  de- 
cision." 

The  Master,  when  a  disciple  of  the  Buddha,  had 
received  the  mysteries  of  the  doctrine  from  the 
teacher  on  Nam-chon  hills.  He  had  there  tasted  its 
refining  influence,  so  that  now,  though  his  age  was 
far  advanced,  he  still  showed  no  signs  of  decay,  and 
the  people  referred  to  him  as  one  of  the  immortals. 
This  is  why  the  Emperor  so  worded  his  reply. 

But  the  Master  again  memorialised  the  Throne  so 
earnestly  that  his  Majesty  called  him  and  said  : 
"  Your  Excellency  has  so  persuasively  made  request 
to  retire,  that  though  my  desire  is  on  no  account  to 
accede  to  you,  still  I  find  I  must.  If  you  should  go  far 
away  to  your  own  state  and  reside  there,  there  would 
be  no  one  to  whom  I  could  refer  the  more  pressing 
affairs  of  the  kingdom.  Now,  also,  that  the  Empress 
Dowager  has  taken  her  departure  to  the  distant 
regions,  how  can  I  bear  to  part  for  so  long  from 

288 


The  Wine  Punishment 

Blossom  and  Orchid.?  To  the  south  of  the  city, 
forty  It  distant,  there  is  a  special  palace  called  the 
Green  Mountain  Castle  where  King  Hyon-jong  used 
to  go  to  escape  the  hot  season.  It  is  quiet  and  retired 
and  is  just  such  a  place  as  old  age  could  enjoy  and 
delight  itself  in.. I  give  this  to  you." 

So  he  issued  a  proclamation  making  the  Master 
the  honorary  Chief  of  the  Literati,  and  appointing  to 
him  five  thousand  extra  homes  to  exalt  his  rank, 
while  he  relieved  him  of  all  the  arduous  duties  of 
active  office. 


289 


Chapter  XVI 
The  Answer :  Back  to  the  Buddha 

THE  Master  was  exceedingly  grateful  for  this 
Imperial  favour  and  bowed  low  and  gave 
thanks.  He  then  removed  his  whole  house- 
hold to  Green  Mountain  Castle,  which  was  among 
the  hills  to  the  south  of  the  city.  The  towers  were  all 
in  good  repair  and  the  views  from  their  tops, 
beautiful  beyond  comparison,  were  like  the  fairy 
vistas  of  the  Pong-nai  Hills. 

The  main  hall  was  empty  and  there  he  placed  the 
Imperial  rescripts  and  orders.  In  the  inner  pavilion 
he  made  the  two  Princesses  live  and  the  six  sisters. 
Day  by  day  in  company  with  his  household  he  visited 
the  groves  and  streams,  enjoyed  the  light  of  the  moon, 
or  went  into  the  valleys  to  seek  cherry  blossoms. 
There  they  wrote  verses  as  they  sat  under  the  shade 
of  the  pines,  or  played  on  the  harp,  so  that  all  who 
knew  of  it  spoke  with  admiration  of  their  happy  old 
age. 

Desiring  quiet,  the  Master  no  longer  saw  guests 
or  callers. 

On  the  1 6th  of  the  8th  Moon,  which  was  his 
birthday,  a  great  feast  was  held  at  which  all  the 
members  of  his  clan  were  present.  It  lasted  for  ten 
days,  during  which  time  the  whole  place  was  astir. 
When  it  was  over  and  quiet  had  returned,  the  retired 
mode  of  life  was  resumed. 

A  little  later  came  the  9th  Moon,  when  the  buds 
of  the  chrysanthemum  began  to  open  and  the  so-yoo 

290 


The  Answer :  Back  to  the  Buddha 

berries  bloomed  red  on  the  high  peaks  and  ledges  of 
the  hills. 

To  the  west  of  Green  Mountain  Castle  was  a  high 
tower  from  which  a  view  of  the  Chin  River  was  to 
be  had,  stretching  a  hundred  miles,  silvery  and  clear 
in  its  long  expanse  of  water.  The  Master  greatly 
enjoyed  this  view,  and  one  day  he  took  the  two 
Princesses  and  the  six  ladies  with  him  to  the  top. 
Each  had  a  wreath  of  chrysanthemum  flowers 
encircling  her  brow,  and  as  they  looked  off  over 
the  autumn  valleys  they  passed  the  glass  together. 
Suddenly  the  descending  sun  cast  a  shadow  from  the 
neighbouring  peak  that  ran  a  shaft  of  darkness  over 
the  wide  stretch  of  plain.  The  Master  drew  forth  his 
green  stone  flute  and  began  to  play.  The  tune  was 
one  plaintive  beyond  expression,  as  though  heaped- 
up  sorrows  and  hidden  tears  had  broken  forth  upon 
them.  The  ladies'  hearts  were  overcome  with  sadness, 
joy  departed,  and  deep,  long  shadows  closed  down 
upon  the  soul. 

The  two  Princesses  asked  :  "  Yotir  Excellency 
has  won  everything  in  the  way  of  honour  and  fame. 
You  are  rich  in  goods  that  you  have  long  enjoyed, 
with  which  the  world  blesses  you — something  but 
rarely  seen.  When  you  are  so  happily  circumstanced, 
with  a  beautiful  world  outstretched  before  you,  and 
the  golden  flowers  dropping  their  petals  at  your  feet, 
why  should  you  suggest  sadness  and  sorrow  ?  With 
our  loving  hearts  around  you,  too,  what  more  could 
you  have  of  what  the  world  calls  happiness  ?  The 
notes  of  your  flute  break  our  hearts  and  cause  our 
tears  to  flow.  You  never  did  this  before ;  what  does 
it  mean,  pray  ?  " 

291 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

Then  the  Master  threw  away  the  flute,  drew  aside, 
and  resting  on  the  railing  of  the  balcony,  pointed  to 
the  darkening  landscape  and  said  :  "  When  I  look 
north  a  stretch  of  level  country  greets  me  as  far  as 
the  eye  can  see  ;  one  dismantled  hill-top  only  breaks 
the  view.  The  falling  light  of  the  evening  permits  me 
to  see  indistinctly  amid  the  long  grass  the  ruined 
A-bang  Palace  where  dwelt  the  Emperor  Chin-see. 
When  I  look  west  the  lonely  winds  rustle  the  dry 
reeds  of  the  evening  as  the  mists  crown  the  hill  over 
the  deserted  tomb  of  Moo-jee  of  Han,  As  I  look  east, 
a  white  wall  encircles  a  hill,  and  a  red-tiled  palace 
rises  skyward  over  which  the  moon  now  casts  its 
beams.  The  marble  railings  show  no  one  resting  on 
them,  for  it  is  the  long-vacated  palace  of  Hyon-jong, 
where  he  dallied  his  days  away  with  the  famous 
woman  Yang  Kwi-pee.  Alas,  these  were  all  kings  of 
great  renown,  who  made  their  gates  of  the  surround- 
ing sea,  and  their  court  of  the  far-stretching  world. 
All  the  people  were  their  subjects,  and  were  at  their 
service  as  courtiers  or  mistresses.  Their  mighty 
powers  and  talents  were  enlisted  in  search  of  the 
eternal  Pong-nai  Hills  where  they  might  enjoy 
unending  bliss  for  ever. 

"  I,  So-yoo,  in  my  boyhood  was  a  poor  scholar, 
but  I  have  been  blessed  with  enduring  favours  from 
his  Majesty,  and  elevated  to  the  highest  rank.  The 
members  of  my  household  have  lived  together  in 
sweetness  and  accord  till  this  time  of  old  age.  If  it 
had  not  been  for  the  affinity  of  a  former  existence, 
how  could  this  have  been  ?  By  reason  of  this  mys- 
terious bond  it  has  all  come  to  pass.  When  the  term 
fixed  for  this  mortal  life  is  completed,  we  must  part ; 

293 


The  Answer :  Back  to  the  Buddha 

and  when  once  death  has  swept  us  away,  even  this 
lofty  tower  shall  fall  and  the  fair  lake  beneath  us 
shall  be  dried  up.  This  palace  hall^  where  to-day 
is  music  and  dancing,  will  be  overgrown  with  grass 
and  the  mists  will  cover  it.  Children  who  gather  wood 
or  feed  their  cattle  on  the  hillside  will  sing  their  songs 
and  tell  our  mournful  story,  saying  :  *  This  is  where 
Master  Yang  made  merry  with  his  wives  and  family. 
All  his  honours  and  delights,  all  the  pretty  faces  of 
his  ladies,  are  gone  for  ever.' 

"  The  boy  who  gathers  wood  and  the  lad  who  cares 
for  the  cattle  will  look  upon  this  place  of  ours  just  as 
I  look  upon  the  palace  and  tomb  of  the  kings  that 
have  gone  before  us.  When  I  think  of  it,  a  man's  life 
is  only  the  span  of  a  moment  after  all. 

"  There  are  three  religions  on  earth,  Confucian- 
ism, Taoism,  and  Buddhism.  Among  the  three. 
Buddhism  is  the  most  spiritual ;  Confucianism  deals 
with  terrestrial  matters  and  has  to  do  with  the  duties 
of  man  to  man.  It  helps  to  pass  on  names  to  posterity. 
Taoism  is  related  to  the  misty  and  unknown,  and 
though  it  has  many  followers  there  is  no  proof  of  its 
verity. 

"  Since  I  gave  up  office  I  have  dreamed  of  meditation 
before  the  Buddha.  This  is  proof  of  my  affinity  with 
the  God.  Just  as  Chang  Cha-pang  [46]  followed  Chok 
Song-ja,  the  fairy,  I,  too,  must  say  farewell  to  my  home 
and  go  to  the  distant  shore,  there  to  seek  the  Merciful 
Buddha,  ascend  the  Sacred  Hall,  and  bow  low  before 
his  image.  The  Way  that  has  no  birth  and  no  death 
beckons  to  me  and  puts  off  all  the  sorrows  of  life. 
To  you  with  whom  I  have  spent  so  many  happy 
days  I  must  say  a  long  farewell,  and  so  my  sorrow 

29.3 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

and  loss  is  expressed  by  the  sad  notes  of  the  green 
stone  flute." 

The  ladies  in  their  former  existence  had  been  the 
eight  fairies  who  lived  on  Nam-ak  Mountain.  Now 
they  had  fulfilled  their  human  affinity,  and  hearing 
the  Master's  word  they  were  moved  by  it  and  said 
each  to  the  other  :  "  In  the  midst  of  all  his  affluence 
the  Master's  speech  is  evidently  at  the  command  of 
God.  We  eight  sisters  who  have  lived  our  life  in  these 
inner  quarters  and  have  bowed  night  and  morning 
before  the  Buddha  shall  await  the  departure  of  our 
lord.  When  he  goes  he  will  assuredly  meet  the 
Enlightened  One  and  the  righteous  friends  who  have 
gone  before  him  and  will  hear  the  words  of  life.  Our 
humble  wish  is  that  after  he  has  attained  he  may  be 
pleased  to  teach  us  the  way." 

The  Master,  greatly  delighted,  said  :  "  Since  your 
hearts  are  one  with  mine  in  this  you  need  have  no 
fear.  I  start  to-morrow." 

The  ladies  all  said  :  **  We  shall  each  raise  the  glass 
that  wishes  you  great  peace  on  the  eternal  way." 

Just  at  the  moment  when  they  had  given  orders  to 
the  serving  maids  to  bring  the  glasses,  the  fall  of  a 
staff  was  heard  on  the  stone  pavement  beyond  the 
open  balcony.  They  exclaimed  :  "  Who  has  come, 
I  wonder  ?  " 

Immediately  an  old  priest  appeared  before  them 
with  eyebrows  an  ell  long  and  eyes  like  the  waves  of 
the  blue  sea.  His  appearance  and  his  behaviour  were 
mysterious  and  wonderful.  He  ascended  the  tower, 
sat  down  before  the  Master,  and  said  :  "  A  dweller 
from  the  hills  seeks  audience  with  your  Excellency." 

Already  the  Master  knew  that  he  was  no  common 

294 


The  Answer :  Back  to  the  Buddha 

man,  so  he  arose  quickly  and  made  a  respectful 
obeisance  as  he  replied  :  "  Whence  comes  the 
honoured  teacher  ?  " 

The  old  priest  made  answer  :  "  Do  you  not  know 
an  old  friend  ?  I  have  heard  before  that  you  had  a 
gift  for  forgetfulness,  and  now  I  find  that  it  is  true." 

The  Master  looked  carefully  and  then  he  thought 
he  recognised  the  face, but  he  was  not  sure.  Suddenly 
he  recollected,  and  turning  to  the  ladies  said :  "  When 
I  went  into  Tibet  against  the  rebels,  in  my  dream 
after  I  had  shared  the  feast  of  the  Dragon  King  and 
was  on  my  way  home,  I  went  for  a  little  up  the  Nam- 
ak  Hills  and  saw  an  aged  priest  sitting  in  the  seat  of 
the  Master  reciting  with  his  disciples  the  sacred 
sutras  of  the  Buddha.  The  priest  whom  I  saw  there 
is  the  same  who  greets  me  now." 

The  priest  clapped  his  hands,  laughed  and  said  : 
' '  You  are  right,  right.  You  remember,  however,  seeing 
me  in  your  dream  only  ;  the  ten  years  that  we  spent 
together  you  have  forgotten  all  about.  Who  would  say 
that  the  Master  Yang  was  an  enlightened  man  ?  " 

Yang,  not  knowing  what  he  meant,  replied :  "When 
I  was  sixteen  I  was  still  with  my  parents.  I  then  passed 
my  examinations  and  from  that  time  entered  office, 
and  did  not  again  leave  the  capital  till  I  went  south 
as  envoy.  My  next  journey  was  to  put  down  the 
Tibetans.  There  is  no  place  that  my  feet  have 
travelled  over  that  I  do  not  recall.  When  did  I  spend 
ten  years  with  you,  sir  ?  " 

The  priest  looked  sad  and  said :  "  Your  Excellency 
has  not  yet  awakened  from  your  dark  dream." 

"  Have  you,  great  teacher,  any  means  of  awakening 
me  ?  "  asked  Yang. 

295 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

"  That  is  not  difficult,"  said  the  priest.  He  raised 
his  stone  staff  and  struck  the  railing,  when  suddenly 
a  white  cloud  arose  all  about  them  that  came  forth 
from  the  recesses  of  the  hills  till  it  enclosed  the 
tower  and  made  all  dark  and  indistinct  so  that  no  one 
could  see. 

The  Master,  bewildered  as  in  a  dream,  called 
loudly :  "  Will  the  Teacher  not  teach  me  the  true  way, 
instead  of  appljdng  to  me  the  terrors  of  magic  ?  " 
He  did  not  finish  what  he  was  about  to  say,  for 
suddenly  the  clouds  moved  off  and  everybody  had 
disappeared, including  the  priest  and  the  eight  ladies. 
He  was  greatly  alarmed  and  mystified,  and  looked 
with  wonder  to  find  the  tower  with  its  ornamented 
curtains,  but  it  also  hadpassed  from  view.  He  turned 
his  eyes  upon  himself  to  find  his  body,  and  there  he 
was  sitting  cross-legged  on  a  little  round  mat  in  a 
silent  temple.  There  was  an  incense  brazier  before 
him  from  which  the  fires  had  died  out.  The  moon 
was  descending  towards  the  west.  He  felt  his  head 
and  it  had  just  been  shaved,  with  only  the  prickly 
roots  noticeable.  A  string  of  a  hundred  and  eight 
beads  was  round  his  neck,  and  there  he  was  a  poor 
insignificant  priest  with  all  the  glory  of  General  Yang 
departed  from  him.  His  mind  and  soul  were  hope- 
lessly confused  and  his  heart  beat  with  trepidation. 
He  suddenly  awakened  and  said  :  "  I  am  Song-jin, 
a  priest  of  Yon-wha  Monastery." 

As  he  thought  over  the  past  he  remembered  how 
he  had  been  reprimanded  and  what  had  followed. 
He  recalled  his  flight  to  Hades  and  how  he  had 
transmigrated  into  human  life  ;  how  he  had  become 
a  clansman  of  the  Yang   family  ;   his  passing  the 

296 


1u    4^ 


Yang  looks  away  from  the  World  :  Back  to  Religion 


The  Answer :  Back  to  the  Buddha 

examination  and  becoming  a  high  Hallim ;  his 
promotion  to  the  rank  of  General,  and  later  to  be  the 
head  of  the  entire  official  service  ;  how  he  had 
memorialised  the  Emperor  to  resign  his  office  ;  his 
retirement  with  the  two  Princesses  and  the  six  ladies  ; 
how  he  had  enjoyed  music  and  dancing  and  the  notes 
of  the  harp  and  lute  ;  how  he  had  drunk  wine  and 
played  at^o,  and  had  lived  his  days  in  pleasure.  Now 
it  was  all  as  a  passing  dream. 

Then  he  said:  "  The  Teacher  indeed,  knowing  my 
great  sin,  sent  me  forth  to  dream  this  dream  of  life 
so  that  I  might  learn  the  fleeting  character  and  in- 
stability of  all  earthly  things  and  the  vain  loves  of 
human  kind." 

So  he  hastened  to  the  stream  of  water  rushing  by 
and  washed  his  face,  put  on  his  priest's  cassock  and 
hat  and  went  to  take  his  place  among  the  disciples 
before  the  Teacher.  When  they  were  arranged  in 
order  the  Teacher  called  with  a  loud  voice  and  said  : 
"  Song-jin,  how  did  you  find  the  joys  of  mortal  Ufe  ?  " 

Song-jin  bowed,  shed  tears,  and  said  :  "  I  have  at 
last  come  to  realise  what  life  means.  My  life  has  been 
very  impure  and  my  sins  I  can  lay  at  no  one's  door 
but  my  own.  I  have  loved  in  a  lost  and  fallen  world, 
where  for  endless  kalpas  I  should  have  suffered 
sorrow  and  misery  had  not  the  honoured  Teacher 
by  a  dream  of  the  night  awakened  my  soul  to  see.  In 
the  ages  to  come  I  can  never,  never  sufficiently  thank 
Thee  for  what  Thou  hast  done  for  me." 

The  Teacher  said  :  "  You  have  gone  abroad  on 
the  wings  of  worldly  delight  and  have  seen  and  known 
for  yourself.  What  part  have  I  had  in  it,  pray  ?  You 
say  that  you  have  dreamed  a  dream  of  mortal  life 

297 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

upon  the  wheel  and  that  now  you  think  the  two  to 
be  diflFerent,  the  world  and  the  dream  itself  ;  but  that 
is  not  so.  If  you  think  it  so  it  will  show  that  you 
are  not  yet  awakened  from  your  sleep.  Master  Chang 
became  a  butterfly,  and  the  butterfly  became  Master 
Chang.  Was  Chang's  becoming  a  butterfly  a  dream, 
or  was  the  butterfly's  becoming  Chang  a  dream  ? 
You,  Song-jin,  now  think  yourself  reality,  and  your 
past  life  a  dream  only  ;  you  do  not  reckon  yourself 
one  and  the  same  as  the  dream.  Which  shall  I  label 
the  dream,  you  Song-jin,  or  you  So-yoo  ?  " 

Song-jin  replied  :  "I  am  a  darkened  soul  and  so 
cannot  distinguish  which  is  the  dream  and  which  is 
the  actual  reality.  Please,  Teacher,  open  to  me  the 
truth  and  let  me  know." 

The  Teacher  said  :  "I  shall  explain  to  you  the 
Diamond  Sutra  to  awaken  your  soul,  but  there  are 
other  and  new  disciples  whom  I  am  shortly  expect- 
ing. I  await  their  coming." 

Before  he  had  ended  speaking  the  gate-keeper  came 
in  to  say  :  "  The  eight  fairies  of  Lady  Wee  who 
called  yesterday  have  again  arrived  before  the  gate 
and  desire  to  see  the  Great  Teacher," 

They  were  invited  in,  and  as  they  entered  they 
joined  hands  and  bowed,  saying :  "  We  maids,  though 
we  wait  upon  Lady  Wee,  are  untaught  and  unlearned 
and  have  never  known  how  to  repress  the  lawless 
workings  of  the  soul.  Our  earthly  desires  have  gone 
forth  after  sin  and  evil  in  the  dream  of  mortal  life 
and  there  is  no  one  to  save  us  but  the  Great  Teacher, 
who  in  love  and  mercy  Himself  came  to  call  us. 

"  We  went  yesterday  to  Lady  Wee,  confessed  our 
sins  and  wrongdoings  and  asked  forgiveness.    Now 

298 


The  Answer:  Back  to  the  Buddha 

we  have  bade  a  long  farewell  to  her,  and  have  come 
home  to  the  Buddha.  We  humbly  pray  that  the  Great 
Teacher  will  forgive  our  many  shortcomings  and 
tell  us  the  way  to  the  blessed  life." 

He  answered  :  "  Though  your  desire  is  one  greatly 
to  be  praised,  the  law  of  the  Buddha  is  deep  and  hard 
to  attain.  It  cannot  be  learned  in  a  moment  of  time. 
Unless  there  be  great  earnestness  and  a  deep  heart 
of  longing  it  can  never  be  attained.  I  ask  that  you 
fairy  maidens  think  well  over  it  before  you  decide." 

The  eight  fairies  then  withdrew,  washed  the  rouge 
and  colour  from  their  faces  and  put  aside  the  silks 
and  satins  in  which  they  were  bedecked.  They  took 
scissors  and  cut  away  their  clouds  of  floating  hair,  and 
again  entered  to  say  :  "  We  have  made  the  necessary 
changes  in  our  persons  and  will  take  the  teaching  of 
the  Master  with  sincere  and  faithful  hearts." 

The  Teacher  answered  :  "  Good,  good.  Since  you 
eight  have  thus  shown  your  true  and  earnest  purpose, 
why  should  I  longer  withhold  the  Truth  from  you  ?  " 

Then  he  led  them  to  their  places  in  the  Hall  of  the 
Buddha  and  made  them  recite  the  Sacred  Sutras  and 
the  Chin-on.  Thus  did  Song-jin  and  the  eight  priest- 
esses awaken  to  the  truths  of  religion  and  become  par- 
takers of  the  Buddha. 

The  Great  Teacher,  seeing  the  faithfulness  and 
devotion  of  Song-jin,  called  his  disciples  to  him  and 
said  :  "  I  came  from  a  far  distant  world  to  the  Empire 
of  the  Tangs  in  order  to  preach  the  Truth.  At  last  I 
have  found  one  who  can  take  my  place  and  the  time 
has  come  for  me  to  go." 

He  took  his  cassock,  his  alms-dish,  water-bottle, 
his  ornamented  staff,  his  Diamond  Sutra,  gave  them 

299 


The  Cloud  Dream  of  the  Nine 

to  Song-jin,  bade  farewell,  and  took  his  departure  to 
the  west. 

From  this  time  Song-jin  became  chief  of  the  dis- 
ciples on  the  heights  of  Yon-wha  and  taught  the 
Doctrine,  so  that  fairies,  dragons,  demons  and  men 
all  revered  him  as  they  did  the  late  Great  Teacher. 
The  eight  priestesses,  too,  served  him  as  their  master, 
drank  deeply  of  the  Doctrine,  and  at  last  they  all 
reached  the  blissful  heights  of  the  Paradise  to  come. 


300 


Appendix 


[i]  Page  3. — The  worship  of  the  hills.  This  religion  of  the 
East  finds  its  origin  in  a  passage  of  the  "  Book  of  History  " 
which  reads,  "  King  Soon  (2255-2205  B.C.)  offered  sacrifice 
to  God,  to  the  six  Honourable  Ones,  to  the  hills  and  streams, 
and  to  the  multitude  of  spirits." 

Since  that  far-away  time  mountains  have  been  regarded 
as  divinities,  presiding  over  the  fortunes  of  the  State  and  the 
welfare  of  the  King,  and  as  such  have  had  prayers  and  sacri- 
fices constantly  offered  to  them. 

[2]  Page  3. — Deluge.  In  the  "  Book  of  History  "  there  is 
an  account  of  a  deluge  that  lasted  for  nine  years,  from  which 
the  people  were  saved  by  the  might  of  Ha-00.  (2205-2197 

B.C.). 

[3]  ^*g^  4- — ^^^"  See-wang.  (221-209  B.C.).  This  is  the 
king  who  built  the  Great  Wall  of  China  ;  he  is  likewise  famed 
for  having  destroyed  all  the  libraries  and  literature  of  the 
kingdom,  saying  that  it  was  a  source  of  pride  and  contention, 
and  of  no  service  to  the  State.  For  this  his  unblessed  name 
has  been  handed  down  through  the  centuries  as  keul-e  tojok, 
the  "  thief  of  literature." 

[4]  Page  10. — Talma.  He  was  the  28th,  or  last  of  the  Indian 
patriarchs,  Boddhidarma. 

[5]  Page  16. — Chee-jang.  The  God  of  the  Buddhists,  who 
has  supreme  charge  of  all  earthly  things,  and  under  whose 
commands  the  King  of  Hades  is  supposed  to  act. 

[6]  Page  18. — Saree.  These  are  relics  that  are  said  to 
spring  forth  from  the  body  of  a  faithful  Buddhist,  usually 
during  cremation.  They  are  guarded  with  great  care,  often- 
times having  monumental  stones  placed  over  them  ;  some- 
times again  they  are  swallowed  by  devoted  disciples. 

[7]  Page  20. — Pong-nai  Hills.  One  of  the  fabled  abodes  of 
the  genii,  supposed  to  belong  to  some  celestial  island  in  the 
Eastern  Sea.  The  story  of  it  dates  from  250  B.C.  The  fairy 
inhabitants  of  the  place  are  said  to  live  on  gems  found  on 
the  sea-shore.  The  elixir  of  life  is  also  dug  from  its  enchanted 
slopes. 

301 


Appendix 

[8]  Page  21 . — Panak.  A  youth  of  great  beauty  who  Uved  in 
the  time  of  the  Chin  Kingdom,  300  a.d. 

[9]  Page  23. — Willows.  Before  the  capital  of  ancient  China 
there  was  a  grove  of  willows  where  people  said  their  farewells 
and  where  expressions  of  sorrow  at  departure  were  spoken ; 
hence  the  willow  became  the  token  of  special  love.  It  is  the 
first  tree,  too,  of  springtime  to  announce  by  its  blush  of  green 
the  happy  season. 

[10]  Page  30. — Koo  Sa-ryong.  He  was  a  noted  rebel  who 
attacked  the  State  during  the  period  of  the  Tangs,  840  a.d. 

[i  i]  Page  37. — Nakyang.  This  city  lies  south  of  the  Yellow 
River,  not  far  from  the  great  elbow  where  the  stream  turns 
east,  and  its  name  to-day  is  Ho-nan.  The  capital  mentioned 
in  the  story  is  modern  Si-an,  or  Si-ngan,  that  lies  about  250 
miles  directly  west. 

[12]  Page  19-43. — Superior  Man.  This  is  a  translation  of 
the  term  koon-ja,  which  means  a  man  of  superior  virtue. 
Learning  and  training  play  their  part,  but  goodness  is  the 
sine  qud  non  for  this  great  master.  His  superior,  again,  in  the 
scale  of  immortals  is  the  "  Sage,"  or  holy  man. 

[13]  Page  46. — Examinations.  According  to  the  old  laws 
of  China  the  official  examinations  were  held  only  in  the  years 
of  the  intercalary  moon,  but  special  examinations  might  be 
held  at  other  times  with  the  permission  of  His  Majesty. 

[14]  Page  49. — Princess  Tak-moon.  The  daughter  of  a 
great  Croesus  of  China,  B.C.  150,  she  has  become  associated 
with  the  most  famous  of  all  historic  scandals.  Through 
the  influence  of  his  skill  upon  the  lute,  she  became  enamoured 
of  the  scholar  and  poet,  Sa-ma  Sang-yo,  and,  contrary  to  all 
the  laws  that  govern  widows  and  keep  them  exclusively  to 
the  memory  of  their  late  husband,  she  eloped  with  him.  Her 
name  is  universally  associated  to-day  with  the  delights  and 
charms  of  sweet  music. 

[15]  Page  50. — Yi  Tai-baik.  The  most  famous  of  China's 
poets.  He  lived  from  699  to  762  A.D.,  in  the  Tang  Kingdom, 
a  hundred  years  or  so  before  the  time  of  this  story.  He  claimed, 
as  this  story  depicts,  that  he  was  one  of  the  genii,  exiled  for 
a  period  to  this  dusty,  troubled  world. 

[16]  Page  so-— Han  Moo-je.  Died  B.C.  87.  He  is  one  of 

302 


Appendix 

the  most  famous  Emperors  of  China.  At  first  he  was  a  great 
lover  of  Confucian  literature,  but  later  this  love  waned  and 
he  became  a  devotee  of  Taoism.  He  is  said  to  have  visited 
the  famous  Western  Queen  Mother,  So  Wang-mo,  who 
kept  her  court  of  paradise  on  the  tops  of  the  Kuen-luen 
Mountains.  She  also  visited  him,  and  this  has  become  the 
most  famous  incident  in  the  life  of  this  Emperor,  who  reigned 
for  over  fifty  years. 

[17]  Page  56. — The  Division  of  the  Sexes.  This  custom  has 
been  strictly  observed  in  Korea  up  to  the  present  time,  and 
forbids  not  only  acquaintance  but  even  the  seeing  of  women 
and  girls  by  members  of  the  male  sex.  According  to  the  law 
of  Confucius,  brothers  and  sisters  were  divided  at  seven  years 
of  age,  the  girls  to  abide  thereafter  in  the  inner  quarters,  while 
the  boys  were  to  live  their  lives  outside  this  enclosure. 

[18]  Page  58. — The  Feast  of  Lanterns,  Held  as  a  prayer  to 
the  first  full  moon  of  the  year.  One  of  the  great  sacrificial 
seasons  of  the  Far  East. 

[19]  Page  58. — Kok  Kang.  In  the  year  785  a.d.  King  Tok- 
jong,  on  the  ist  day  of  the  and  Moon,  called  his  ministers 
and  made  them  come  to  the  Kok  Kang  Pavilion  and  write  for 
him.  The  commemoration  of  this  event  has  become  a  festival 
for  the  literati,  and  is  called  the  Kok  Kang  Assembly. 

[20]  Page  64. — Wang  So-geun.  This  marvellous  woman, 
by  her  beauty,  brought  on  in  the  year  33  B.C.  a  war  between 
the  fierce  barbarian  Huns  of  the  north  and  China  Proper. 
She  was  finally  captured  and  carried  away,  but  rather  than 
yield  herself  to  her  savage  conqueror,  she  plunged  into  the 
Amur  River  and  was  drowned.  Her  tomb  on  the  bank  is  said 
to  be  marked  by  und3ring  verdure. 

The  history  of  Wang  So-geun  forms  the  basis  of  a  drama, 
translated  by  Sir  John  Davis,  and  entitled  "  The  Sorrows  of 
Han." 

[21]  Page  73. — The  Hoi  Examination.  This  is  the  second 
regular  examination  taken  by  those  who  have  passed  the 
first.  The  Chon  is  a  special  examination  taken  before  the 
Emperor. 

[22]  Page  73. — Hallim.  The  term  hallim  means  a  member 
of  the  college  of  literature,  a  literary  senator. 

303 


Appendix 

[23]  Page  S6.—S0  Wang-mo  (Western  Queen  Mother). 
A  great  divinity  of  Taoism,  who  is  supposed  to  dwell  in  her 
paradise  on  the  tops  of  the  Kuen-luen  Mountains,  Tibet. 
For  thousands  of  years  she  has  been  regarded  as  the  chief  of 
•the  genii,  and  kings  and  emperors  have  become  immortalised 
from  having  had  audience  with  her.  She  dwells  by  the  "  Lake 
of  Gems,"  near  whose  border  grow  the  peach  trees  of  the 
fairies.  Anyone  eating  of  this  fruit  will  live  for  ever.  The 
gentle  messengers  who  carry  her  despatches  are  the  "  azure 
pigeons  "  mentioned  so  often  in  Far  Eastern  stories. 

[34]  Page  102. — Song  Ok.  He  was  a  great  poet  of  the  fourth 
century  B.C.  His  teacher  was  Kool-won,  who  was  drowned 
in  the  Myok-na  River.  Song  Ok,  by  supernatural  power, 
called  up  the  dead  spirit  of  his  teacher  and  talked  with  him, 

[25]  Page  105. — Cho  Yang-wang  (650  B.C.).  He  met  a  fairy 
from  Moo-san  Mountains  and  lived  with  her.  Her  way  of 
going  and  coming  was  by  becoming  rain  in  the  evening  and 
visiting  him,  and  by  becoming  a  cloud  in  the  morning  and 
so  sailing  away. 

[26]  Page  126. — Wang  Ja-jin.  A  man  of  the  time  of  Han 
Myong-je  (58  A.D.),  who  became  one  of  the  genii.  He  was  a 
magistrate  of  a  far  distant  county,  and  yet  he  came  the 
first  day  of  every  month  to  pay  his  devotions  to  the  Emperor. 
His  Majesty,  amazed  at  his  coming  thus  over  so  impossible 
a  distance,  had  an  officer  commissioned  to  watch  and  find 
out  how  he  came.  This  official,  when  the  time  came  for  Ja- 
jin's  arrival,  was  on  the  look-out  and  saw  two  ducks  flying 
toward  the  capital.  He  caught  them  in  a  net,  when  suddenly 
they  changed  into  a  pair  of  shoes.  The  shoes,  on  being  ex- 
amined, turned  out  to  be  a  pair  that  the  Emperor  had  given 
to  Ja-jin. 

When  the  time  of  Ja-jin's  departure  from  the  earth  came, 
a  green  stone  coffin  descended  from  heaven.  Ja-jin,  seeing 
it,  said  that  God  was  calling  him.  He  then  bathed  and  took 
his  place  in  the  coflSn  ;  the  lid  arose  of  itself  and  covered  the 
top.  A  grave  was  found  made  without  human  hands  just 
outside  the  city,  where  he  is  said  to  be  buried. 

[27]  Page  127. — Nong-ok  (sixth  century  B.C.).  She  was  the 
wife  of  Wang  Ja-jin,  the  most  renowned  of  all  China's  flautists. 

304 


Appendix 

She  learned  from  him,  and  when  they  played  together 
it  is  said  they  brought  down  angel-birds  (phoenixes)  from 
the  sky  to  hear  them. 

[28]  Page  129. — Yo,  Soon.  These  are  the  two  most  famous 
rulers  of  patriarchal  China.  Their  names  are  associated  in 
Korea  with  the  golden  age  of  the  world,  and  are  passed  from 
lip  to  lip  as  the  ultimate  of  righteous  kingship.  Their  story 
is  told  in  the  sacred  "  Book  of  History." 

[29]  Page  143. — The  Three  Relationships.  The  subject's 
duty  to  his  sovereign  ;  the  son's  duty  to  his  father  ;  the  wife's 
duty  to  her  husband. 

[30]  Page  144. — The  Primary  Laws.  These  are  the  Five 
Laws  for  which  special  honour  is  done  Confucius,  as  the 
great  sage  who  emphasised  their  importance.  They  are  :  duty 
to  the  king ;  duty  to  a  father  ;  duty  to  an  older  brother  ; 
duty  to  a  husband  ;  duty  to  a  friend. 

[31]  Page  145. — The  Six  Farms.  These  have  to  do  with 
marriage,  and  may  be  defined  as  :  ist,  the  announcement ; 
2nd,  asking  the  name  ;  3rd,  choosing  the  day  ;  4th,  making 
the  presents  ;  5th,  settling  the  various  times  ;  6th,  perform- 
ing the  ceremony. 

[32]  Page  149. — Stic  Laws.  These  pertain  to  the  art  of  war- 
fare, and  are  explained  in  the  famous  treatise  said  to  have 
been  written  by  the  Duke  Kang-tai,  who  flourished  in  the 
twelfth  century  B.C.  The  six  divisions  are  marked  respec- 
tively by  the  names  Dragon,  Tiger,  Ideograph,  Warrior, 
Leopard,  Dog. 

[33]  Page  149. — Eight  Diagrams.  These  are  sets  of  lines 
divided  and  undivided,  arranged  in  threes,  which,  when 
combined  in  double  sets,  form  the  basis  of  "  the  Book  of 
Changes,"  the  most  famous  literary  work  of  Far  Eastern 
Asia. 

[34]  Page  ^56. — The  Dragon  King.  He  is  said  to  live  in  the 
crystal  palace,  in  the  bottom  of  the  sea,  and  to  be  the  giver 
of  rain.  As  the  tiger  is  regarded  as  the  king  of  the  mountains, 
so  the  dragon  rules  the  deep.  The  chief  Dragon  King  pre- 
sides over  the  Four  Seas,  while  the  lesser  dragon  kings  hold 
court  in  such  places  as  Nam-hai,  Tong-jong,  etc. 

[35]  Page  160. — Grandmother  of  the  Moon.  There  was  a 

305  V 


Appendix 

man  in  the  time  of  the  Tangs  called  Wi-go,  who  greatly 
desired  to  get  married.  Once,  while  he  was  going  on  a  journey 
he  saw  an  old  woman  sitting  in  the  moonlight  reading  a  book, 
while  she  leaned  her  back  against  a  linen  sack.  Wi-go  asked 
what  book  she  was  reading,  and  she  replied  that  it  was  a  book 
of  the  marriages  of  all  the  earth.  Again  he  asked,  "  What  is 
in  the  sack  ?  "  "  Red  string,"  said  she.  "  When  once  I  have 
tied  the  feet  of  those  who  are  destined  for  each  other  with 
this  red  cord  the  whole  world  cannot  keep  them  apart." 

[36]  Page  174. — Transmigration  of  Souk.  This  is  a  teaching 
that  came  in  with  Buddhism,  and  has  had  a  ruling  place  in 
the  thought  of  the  East  for  2000  years.  A  righteous  life  in 
this  present  age  means  a  step  upward  in  the  next  existence, 
which,  if  continued,  will  at  last  bring  one  to  Nirvana.  .Sin 
brings  one  lower  and  lower  till  at  last  it  lands  the  guilty  one 
in  the  hells  that  await  the  lost. 

[37]  Page  178. — Weaving  Damsel.  She  is  one  of  the  celestial 
lovers.  Her  sweetheart,  the  herdsman,  is  supposed  to  be  the 
star  b  in  Aquila,  while  she  is  the  star  a  in  Lyra.  They  are 
lovers  who,  by  the  abyss  of  the  Milky  Way,  are  separated 
all  the  year  round,  till  the  7th  night  of  the  7th  Moon,  when 
the  magpies  of  the  earth  assemble  and  form  a  bridge  over  the 
chasm  and  enable  them  to  meet.  This  is  one  of  the  Orient's 
most  famous  legends. 

[38]  Page  179. — Panso.  She  is  the  most  noted  of  ancient 
literary  women.  Her  brother  is  one  of  the  first  historians  of 
the  East,  and  after  his  death  she,  at  the  command  of  the 
Emperor,  carried  on  what  he  had  begun. 

[39]  Page  180. — Pi-yon  (first  century  B.C.)  A  famous  dancing 
girl  who,  by  her  grace  and  loveliness  of  form,  won  the  name 
of  Pi-yon,  Flying  Swallow,  and  became  the  first  favourite 
of  the  Emperor.  So  gifted  was  she  in  the  touch  of  the  toe  that 
she  could  dance  on  the  open  palm  of  the  hand. 

[40]  Page  208. — Seven  Precious  Things,  ist,  the  full  moon  ; 
2nd,  lovely  ladies  ;  3rd,  horses  ;  4th,  elephants  ;  5th,  the 
guardians  of  the  treasury  ;  6th,  great  generals  ;  7th,  wonder- 
working pearls. 

[41]  Page  219. — The  left  hand.  While  in  the  East  the  right 
hand  is  really  the  place  of  honour  if  we  judge  by  evidences 

306 


Appendix 

of  antiquity,  still  in  ordinary  usage  the  left  comes  first. 
In  the  marriage  here  mentioned,  Princess  Blossom  takes 
precedence  of  Princess  Orchid. 

[42]  Page  248. — Che  Kal-yang.  He  is  the  great  Napoleonic 
leader  of  China  200  B.C.  Hang-00  and  Pom-jing,  who  lived 
shortly  before  the  beginning  of  the  Christian  era,  were  lesser 
lights  in  the  world  of  the  warrior. 

[43]  Page  265. — A-whang;  Yo-yong.  These  were  two  sisters, 
daughters  of  the  Emperor  Yo  (2288  B.C.),  who,  like  Leah 
and  Rachel,  were  given  to  his  successor  as  his  faithful  wives. 
Tradition  relates  that  they  journeyed  south  with  him  till  they 
reached  Chang-o,  where  he  died.  They  wept,  and  their  tears, 
falling  on  the  leaves,  caused  to  come  into  being  the  spotted 
bamboo. 

[44]  Page  272. — Im,  Sa.  Two  famous  women  of  China, 
who  lived  1122  B.C. 

[45]  Page  288. — So-boo  (Nest-Father).  He  is  a  legendary 
being  said  to  have  lived  B.C.  2357,  and  to  have  made  his  home 
in  a  tree ;  hence  his  name.  He  was  a  man  of  singular  upright- 
ness, who  greatly  influenced  his  age  for  good.  Once,  when 
offered  the  rule  of  the  empire  by  the  great  Yo,  he  went  and 
washed  his  ears  in  the  brook  to  rid  them  of  the  taint  of  worldly 
ambition. 

[46]  Page  293. — Chang  Cha-pang.  One  of  the  founders  of 
the  Han  Dynasty  (206  B.C.)  and  one  of  China's  three  great 
heroes.  Mayers  says  :  "At  the  close  of  his  official  career  he 
renounced  the  use  of  food  and  prosecuted  the  search  for  the 
elixir  of  life  under  the  guidance  of  a  supernatural  being,  but 
failed  to  attain  immortality." 


307 


From  Daniel  O'Connor's  List 


REPRINTS  JUST  PUBLISHED 
By  the  Author  of 

"  THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA  " 
POLLY :   AN  OPERA 

Being  the  Second  Part  of  "  The  Beggar's  Opera,"  by 
Mr.  Gay.  The  Foreword  by  Oswald  Doughty,  M.A., 
Lecturer  in  English,  University  College,  London. 
With  a  Portrait  of  John  Gay,  and  a  facsimile  title-page 
(reduced)  of  the  first  edition.  Crown  8vo,  6s.  net. 

"  There  are  pretty  songs  in '  Polly,'  which  would  go 
well  to  music  at  Hammersmith." — The  Times. 

The  impending  revival  of  this  Opera  on  the  English  Stage 

makes  this  reprint  very  opportune.  The  volume  is  a  triumph 

of  the  printer's  art. 

An  Edition  de  Luxe  of 

JOHN  GAY'S  "  TRIVIA :  or  The  Art  of 

Walking  the  Streets  of  London. 

An  authoritative  opinion  states  that  this  is  the  best  pro- 
duced book  this  year. 

With  Introduction  and  Notes  by  W.  H.  Williams, 
M.A.  Limited  Edition  on  Van  Gelder  Dutch  hand- 
made paper,  with  a  Portrait,  i6  Plates  in  Collotype,  a 
Facsimile  Title-page,  Head  and  Tail  Pieces  in  the  text, 
and  special  end-papers.  Imperial  8vo  (ii  by  7J  ins.), 
gilt  top,  in  cardboard  case,  £2  zs.  net. 

"...  The  main  charm  of  '  Trivia  '  is  that  it  tells 
vividly  of  Old  London  of  which  much  survives  in  our 
own  time  . . .  A  beautiful  and  delightful  book." — Times. 

LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  JOHN  GAY 

Author  of"  The  Beggar's  Opera."  By  Lewis  Melville. 
With  a  Portrait.  Demy  8vo,  8^.  bd.  net. 

"  Of  Gay's  literary  and  social  life,  Mr.  Melville,  with 
an  enjoyably  liberal  employment  of  the  letters,  both  of 
Gay  and  his  friends,  gives  a  lively  description." — 
Scotsman. 

LONDON  :  90  GT.  RUSSELL  ST.,  W.C.i 


FROM  DANIEL  O'CONNOR'S 

READY  SHORTLY 

THE  BEGGAR'S  OPERA.    By  John  Gay. 

Edited  with  an  Introduction  by  Oswald  Doughty, 
M.A.,  Assistant  Lecturer  in  English,  University 
College.  With  i6  Illustrations  in  Collotype.  Limited 
Edition  of  i,ooo  numbered  copies.  Imperial  8vo. 
Gilt  top,  uncut  edges,  printed  on  Van  Gelder  Dutch 
hand-made  paper.  42^.  net. 


Gift  Books  for  the  Christmas 
Season  for  Children  and  Adults 

Charmingly  Illustrated 

THE  STORY  OF  THE  MIKADO.  By  Sir 
W.  S.  Gilbert.  With  6  Coloured  lUlustrations 
and  ID  others  by  Alice  B.Woodward.  Decor- 
ated title  and  end-papers.  Crown  4to,  bs.  net. 

"  '  The  Story  of  the  Mikado,'  with  its  beautiful 
illustrations,  should  be  one  of  the  most  popular  books 
of  the  season." — The  Sphere. 

THE  LUCK  OF  THE  BEAN-ROWS  :  A 
Fairy-Tale  for  Children.  With  29  Illustrations 
in  Colour  by  Claud  Lovat  Fraser,  and  a 
Dedication  to  H.R.H.  The  Princess  Mary. 
Royal  8vo,  6s.  net. 

"  A  charming  old-world  air  pervades  this  quaint 
fairy  tale,  emphasised  by  the  coloured  fancies  of  C. 
Lovat  Fraser  that  jewel  its  pages." — Bookman. 

"  The  book  is  a  gem  of  modern  typography,  and 
will  be  treasured  as  such." — The  Observer. 

THE  WOODCUTTER'S  DOG.  By  Charles 
Nodier.  With  14  Coloured  Illustrations  by 
Claud  Lovat  Eraser.  Royal  8vo,  35.  6d.  net. 

The  fascinating  story  "  Le  Chien  de  Brisquet," 
which  has  enthralled  French  children  for  years,  is  now 
introduced  to  English  children,  with  a  few  delightful 
coloured  illustrations. 

LONDON  :  90  GT.  RUSSELL  ST.,  W.C.i 


AUTUMN  LIST 


Gift  books  for  the  Christmas  Season 
for  Children  and  Adults  (continued) 

THE  BOWER  BOOK  OF  SIMPLE  POEMS 
FOR  BOYS  AND  GIRLS.  Edited  by  Letty 
and  Ursula  Littlewood.  With  lo  Coloured 
and  21  Text  Illustrations  and  specially  designed 
end-papers  by  Honor  C.  Appleton.  F'scap 
4to,  75.  6d.  net. 

THE  HOUSE  OF  FANCY.  By  Mrs.  H.  C. 
Cradock.  With  6  Coloured  Illustrations  by 
Honor  C.  Appleton.  F'scap  4to,  6s.  net. 

MY  FAVOURITE  NURSERY  RHYMES. 
With  12  Coloured  and  50  Black  and  White 
Illustrations  and  a  Coloured  Jacket  by  Maud 
TiNDAL  Atkinson.    F'scap.  4to,  ys.  (id.  net. 

CHRISTMAS  CAROLS.  With  13  Coloured 
Illustrations  by  Eleanor  Fortescue  Brick- 
dale.  Imperial  410,  215.  net. 

ONCE  UPON  A  TIME  :  Fairy  Tales  of 
Long  Ago.  By  Charles  Perrault.  With  6 
Coloured  Illustrations  and  end-papers  by 
Helen  Sinclair.  F'scap  4to,  6s.  net. 

THE  SWEET  AND  TOUCHING  TALE 
OF  FLEUR  AND  BLANCHEFLEUR : 
The  Classic  Tale  of  True  Love  Rewarded. 
With  37  Coloured  Illustrations  by  Eleanor 
Fortescue  Brickdale.  Crown  4to,  75. 6d.  net. 


LONDON  :  90  GT.  RUSSELL  ST.,  W.C.i 


DANIEL  O'CONNOR'S  NEW  BOOKS 
IN  THE  PRESS 

TRAVEL,  OLD  AND  NEW.  Edited  by 
Samuel  J.  Looker.  Demy  8vo,  21s.  net. 

No  class  of  literature  is  more  fascinating  and  so 
varied  in  its  interest  as  the  literature  of  Travel.  This 
book  gives  a  selection  from  the  great  •  travel  books, 
past  and  present.  No  lover  of  the  delights  of  Travel 
in  all  lands  can  afford  to  be  without  it. 

A  NEW  SERIES  OF  GREAT  INTEREST 

THE  BEECHWOOD  BOOKS  ON  SPORT 

A  Series  of  Popular  Anthologies  on  Golf,  Racing,  Cricket, 
Fishing,  Yachting  and  Hunting,  combining  literary  charm 
with  the  practical  side  of  the  sports. 
F'cap  8vo,  6s.  net  each. 

FLOAT  AND  FLY  A  Little  Book  for 
Anglers.  Selected  and  Arranged  by  Samuel 
J.  Looker.  With  Coloured  Jacket  and  Front- 
ispiece by  the  late  Claud  Lovat  Eraser, 

A  masterly  selection  from  the  literature  of  Fishing, 
past  and  present.  Every  lover  of  the  pastime  and 
devotee  of  the  open  air  will  treasure  this  book. 

THE  CHASE  :  An  Anthology  of  Hunting. 
Selected  and  Arranged  by  Samuel  J.  Looker. 
With  Coloured  Jacket  and  Frontispiece  by  the 
late  Claud  Lovat  Eraser. 

Hunting,  past  and  present,  described  by  the  great 
sporting  writers,  and  by  famous  English  Novelists 
and  Poets.  Since  the  days  of  the  Druid  and  Nimrod 
nothiiig  has  appeared  of  so  vital  an  interest  to  the 
lover  of  Sport. 

PYROTECHNICS  :  The  History  and  Art  of 
Firework  Making.  By  St.  H.  Brock,  a.r.i.b.a. 
With  numerous  Coloured  and  other  Illustra- 
tions. Crown  4to,  25s.  net. 

A  book  by  an  expert  which  records  the  romance  of 
Fireworks  from  the  earliest  times  to  the  present  day. 
Some  fine  Japanese  illustrations  add  to  the  charm  of 
a  notable  book. 

LONDON  :  go  GT.  RUSSELL  ST.,  W.C.i 


